# 132488

**Source:** 132488.pdf  
**Converted:** 2026-01-26 09:21:52

---

## Page 1

Using LLM-Based Deep Reinforcement Learning Agents to Detect Bugs
in Web Applications
YukiSakai,YasuyukiTahara,AkihikoOhsugaandYuichiSei
TheUniversityofElectro-Communications,Japan
Keywords: Black-Box GUI Testing, Web Applications, Deep Reinforcement Learning, Large Language Model,
AutomatedTesting.
Abstract: Thispaperpresentsanapproachtoautomateblack-boxGUItestingforwebapplicationsbyintegratingdeep
reinforcementlearning(DRL)withlargelanguagemodels(LLMs).TraditionalGUItestingisofteninefficient
andcostlyduetothedifficultyingeneratingcomprehensivetestscenarios. WhileDRLhasshownpotential
inautomatingexploratorytestingbyleveragingGUIinteractiondata,suchdataisbrowser-dependentandnot
alwaysaccessibleinwebapplications.Toaddressthischallenge,weproposeusingLLMstoinferinteraction
informationdirectlyfromHTMLcode,incorporatingtheseinferencesintotheDRL’sstaterepresentation.We
hypothesizethatcombiningtheinferentialcapabilitiesofLLMswiththerobustnessofDRLcanmatchtheac-
curacyofmethodsrelyingondirectdatacollection.Throughexperiments,wedemonstratethatLLM-inferred
interactioninformationeffectivelysubstitutesfordirectdata, enhancingboththeefficiencyandaccuracyof
automatedGUItesting. OurresultsindicatethatthisapproachnotonlystreamlinesGUItestingforwebap-
plicationsbutalsohasbroaderimplicationsfordomainswheredirectstateinformationishardtoobtain. The
studysuggeststhatintegratingLLMswithDRLoffersapromisingpathtowardmoreefficientandscalable
automationinGUItesting.
1 INTRODUCTION state, in order to verify whether accuracy remains
comparable to using actual interaction data (Brown
Insoftwaredevelopment,testingisacrucialprocess. etal.,2020).
Particularly in web applications (web apps), black- DRLisknownforitsrobustness(CarliniandWag-
box GUI testing can be costly (Bertolino, 2007). As ner, 2017), whereas LLM inference results are prob-
a result, research efforts are underway to automate abilistic(Xiaetal.,2024). Wehypothesizethatthese
the creation and execution of test scenarios (Sneha characteristics are compatible. If this hypothesis is
and Malle, 2017). Additionally, exploratory testing, confirmed,itcouldhaveapplicationsinvariousfields.
whichdoesnotrelyonpredefinedscenarios,hasbeen SincetheextensiveknowledgeofLLMsisnotlimited
proposedasatestingmethodology. Exploratorytest- towebapps(Changetal.,2024),theycanbeutilized
ingleveragestheintuitionandexperienceoftestersto whenobtainingstatesinDRLisdifficult,orserveas
discoverbugs,anditisconsideredaneffectivemeans cluesduringagenttraining.
forbugdetection(ItkonenandRautiainen,2005).
The primary approach to automating exploratory
testingisthroughdeepreinforcementlearning(DRL). 2 RELATED RESEARCH
Recent studies have shown that leveraging interac-
tioninformationofGUIelements, ratherthanfocus-
2.1 Black-BoxGUITestingwithDRL
ing solely on their states, can enhance performance
(Romdhana et al., 2022). However, in web apps,
Variousapproacheshavebeenproposedforautomat-
the interaction information of HTML elements de-
ing black-box GUI testing (Wetzlmaier et al., 2016)
pends on the browser, and some browsers cannot re-
(Adamo et al., 2018). Recently, methods utilizing
trievethisinformation. Thus, largelanguagemodels
DRL have also been proposed. Eskonen et al. pro-
(LLMs) can be used to infer interaction information
posed a method for web apps that uses GUI screen-
fromHTMLandincorporatetheseinferencesintothe
shotsasinputforDRL,achievinghigherexploration
1001
Sakai,Y.,Tahara,Y.,Ohsuga,A.andSei,Y.
UsingLLM-BasedDeepReinforcementLearningAgentstoDetectBugsinWebApplications.
DOI:10.5220/0013248800003890
InProceedingsofthe17thInternationalConferenceonAgentsandArtificialIntelligence(ICAART2025)-Volume3,pages1001-1008
ISBN:978-989-758-737-5;ISSN:2184-433X
Copyright©2025byPaperpublishedunderCClicense(CCBY-NC-ND4.0)

## Page 2

ICAART2025-17thInternationalConferenceonAgentsandArtificialIntelligence
accuracy than random search and Q-learning-based 2.3 LLMsasaRewardFunction
methods(Eskonenetal.,2020).
AndreaRomdhanaetal. proposedARES,aDRL- Kwon et al. proposed a method that utilizes LLMs
based Android app testing framework (Romdhana asrewardfunctionsinreinforcementlearning(Kwon
et al., 2022). GUI is retrieved in XML format via et al., 2023). Designing reward functions in rein-
Appium. A vector consisting of the visibility of forcement learning is challenging because it is diffi-
GUI elements and the effectiveness of interactions culttospecifydesiredbehaviorsthroughrewardfunc-
is used as the state. Error discovery and new ele- tions,andcreatingeffectiverewardfunctionsrequires
ment exploration are used as positive rewards. As a specialized knowledge. Therefore, by using LLMs,
result, it achieved higher exploration accuracy than Kwon et al. enabled the use of natural language as
Q-learning-based methods. In recent years, besides an interface, successfully reducing the difficulty of
ARES, further research targeting mobile apps has designingrewardfunctions. Usersprovideexamples
beenconducted(Caietal.,2021)(Taoetal.,2024). or descriptions of desired behaviors as text prompts
Researchfocusingonwebappsisalsoimportant, to the LLM. The LLM outputs reward signals based
and there are two reasons for this. The first reason on these prompts to update the behavior of the re-
is the difference in release spans. Typically, releas- inforcement learning agent. In multiple tasks, the
ing a mobile app requires store review, which can proposedmethoddemonstratedsuperiorperformance
take from several days to up to seven days (Apple, compared to conventional methods. This approach
2024)(Google,2024). Becausereleasingtakestime, usesLLMsasrewardfunctionsofDRL.Inreinforce-
sodoesreleasingbugfixes,sothoroughtestingisre- mentlearning,executingactionsandobtainingstates
quired before introducing new features. By contrast, canalsorequirespecializedknowledge,whichsignif-
web apps can be released simply by uploading files icantly impacts learning. Therefore, the application
to the server. Through automated testing, the testing ofLLMsisanticipatedintheseareas.
process can be streamlined, enabling more frequent
releases. The second reason is differences in frame-
works and types of interactions. During automated 3 PROPOSED METHOD
testexecution,Appiumisusedformobileapps,while
Selenium is used for web apps. However, the infor-
3.1 ReinforcementLearningMethod
mation that can be obtained and the operations that
canbeperformeddifferbasedontheframework. For
In this study, we use Proximal Policy Optimization
thesereasons,applyingmethodsproposedformobile
(PPO)astheDRLalgorithm(Schulmanetal.,2017).
appstowebappsisvaluable.
ForimplementingtheDRLalgorithm, weuseStable
Baselines3(Raffinetal.,2021). Thesystemoverview
2.2 GUITestSpecializedLLMAgent
is shown in Figure 1. We defined the action space
as the indices in the dictionary that stores GUI ele-
Yoon et al. proposed a GUI testing framework uti-
ments, and the state space as a one-hot vector con-
lizingLLMs(Yoonetal.,2023). Theframeworkcon-
sisting of the visibility and clickability of GUI ele-
sistsoffourtypesofagents:Planner,Actor,Observer,
ments. The reward assigns a numerical value based
andReflector. First,thePlannergenerateshigh-level
on the cumulative number of new states discovered
test cases considering diversity, realism, difficulty,
in the web page. The aim of this research is not
and importance. Next, the Actor determines and ex-
toimproveperformancethroughchangesintherein-
ecutes specific actions to achieve the generated test
forcementlearningmethod,buttoexaminehowsub-
cases. TheObservermonitorsthepost-actionstateof
stituting LLM inference results affects performance.
theGUIandoutputsit. Finally,theReflectorreviews
Consequently,weadoptPPOforitsstabilityintrain-
the execution and provides feedback to the Planner.
ing.PPOischosenasOpenAI’sdefaultreinforcement
Thisapproachdemonstratedsignificantresultsinex-
learningalgorithmduetoitseaseofuseandexcellent
plorationandfunctionalcoverage. Yoonetal. identi-
performance(OpenAI,2024b).
fiedmonetarycostasachallengebecausetheirframe-
work relies on LLMs accessed through the OpenAI
3.2 UtilizationofInferenceResultsby
API.
LLMs
Web apps are generally operated through a browser.
However, even with the same source code, behavior
1002

## Page 3

UsingLLM-BasedDeepReinforcementLearningAgentstoDetectBugsinWebApplications
Figure2:TestApplication.
natural language. On the other hand, DRL models
arecharacterizedbyrobustness,meaningtheyarere-
Figure1:TheSystemOverview.
silienttonoise.Thisimpliesthatevenifsomenoiseis
can vary across different browsers. Therefore, it is present in the input, the model’s output remains sta-
advisable to conduct black-box GUI testing for each ble. By leveraging these characteristics, we expect
browser. Seleniumisawell-knownautomatedtesting that incorporating LLMs’ inference results into the
frameworkforwebapps. Itprovidesdriversforeach DRLstatewillenhanceperformance.
browser,whichallowsteststobeconductedindividu-
ally.
In this study, we use interaction information, 4 EXPERIMENTS
specificallywhetherHTMLelementsareclickable,in
our learning process. Because we employ Selenium In this study, we first verify that utilizing the inter-
asthetestframework,theinteractioninformationob- action information of HTML elements in web appli-
tainable differs from that in Appium, which is used cationscanenhancetheefficiencyoflearning. Next,
for mobile apps. Furthermore, determining whether we use an LLM to infer the interaction information
anelementisclickableisaruntimeprocessthatmust of HTML elements and incorporate these results as
be performed through the browser. For Chrome, Se- part of the state in DRL. We then verify whether in-
leniumprovidesaninterfacetoexecutethenecessary corporatingtheseinferredresultsallowsustoachieve
Chrome DevTools Protocol commands. Meanwhile, accuracycomparabletothatwhentheinferredresults
althoughsuchdatacanbeobtainedviathedeveloper arenotused.
toolsinSafariorFirefox,Seleniumdoesnotprovide
aninterfaceforthesebrowsers. Somebrowsersmay
4.1 OriginalTestApplicationCreation
not support retrieving interaction information at all.
Therefore, we propose a method using LLMs to in-
In this study, we created and used a custom web ap-
ferwhetherHTMLelementsareclickableandincor-
plication as the test subject. There are two reasons
porate this inference into the DRL state. Although
for this. The first reason is that test apps in research
the appearance of buttons and other GUI elements
onautomatingblack-boxGUItestingofwebappsare
varies across sites, the act of inferring clickability
not generalized. The second reason is that to ver-
from HTML is largely unaffected. If the inference
ify the use of LLMs as part of the DRL state. The
resultsprovesufficientasasubstitute, moreefficient
created web application is shown in Figure 2. It has
black-boxGUItestingcanbeconductedacrossvari-
three states, and there are three buttons at the top of
ousbrowsers.
thescreen. Clickinganyofthesebuttonsswitchesthe
state,whichisthendisplayedastextatthebottomof
3.3 RobustnessofMachineLearning
thescreen. ThewebappwasdevelopedusingVue.js
ModelsandLLMs (You, 2024). All buttons are implemented using the
button tag and are clickable. The current state dis-
In this study, we utilize the LLM’s inference results playisimplementedusingadivtag. Thisappiscre-
as part of the DRL state. This approach is based on atedasasingle-pageapplication,sotheURLdoesnot
the hypothesis that the imperfect inference accuracy change.
of LLMs is compensated by the robustness of DRL
models, making them an effective combination. The 4.2 Exp. 1: ApplicationtoWebApps
inferenceaccuracyofLLMsisnot100%duetofac-
tors such as the incompleteness of training data, the First, we trained an automated test agent on the
probabilistic nature of LLMs, and the ambiguity of custom web application. Through this training, we
1003

## Page 4

ICAART2025-17thInternationalConferenceonAgentsandArtificialIntelligence
Figure3:Exp.1:SystemArchitecture.
verified that utilizing interaction information in web
apps accelerates learning and improves accuracy of
an DRL model. The system overview is shown in
Figure 3. The web app was operated and obtained
state through Selenium, and converted into an Ope-
nAI Gym environment (OpenAI, 2024a). We then Figure4:StepSequence.
performedtrainingusingPPOwithStableBaselines3.
Selenium is a browser automation framework In this study, we determined whether an HTML
commonly used in automated testing of web apps. element is clickable by checking if a click event lis-
OpenAI Gym is an open-source toolkit provided by tener is attached. The DOM elements obtained via
OpenAItofacilitatethedevelopmentandcomparison Seleniumdonotprovideadirectmethodtodetermine
of DRL algorithms. Stable Baselines3 uses OpenAI clickability. Although it is possible to generally in-
Gymenvironmentsastheinterfacebetweentherein- fer clickability based on HTML tags like button or
forcement learning algorithms and the environment. div, this method is not straightforward. Buttons can
Therefore, to use the web app as a learning environ- bedisabled,makingthemnon-clickable,anddivtags
ment, we adapted it to conform to the OpenAI Gym can have click events attached, making them click-
interfaceusingSelenium. able. Therefore,wedecidedthatanelementisclick-
The parameters for training were set as follows. able if it has a click event listener attached. Event
Forparametersnotlistedbelow,thedefaultvaluesof listenersattachedtoHTMLelementsareruntimein-
StableBaselines3wereused. formation that need to be obtained via the browser’s
developer tools. Selenium provides drivers for each
EnvironmentsConcurrency. 20envs
browser, but the ability to use developer tool APIs
UpdatetheNetwork. Every 512 steps per environ- varies by browser. The Chrome driver has an inter-
ment,i.e.,every10,240stepsintotal. face for calling developer tool APIs, but Firefox and
Safaridonot. Therefore,weusedtheChromedriver
TestCycle. Attheendofeachepoch.
inthisstudy.
Iwillexplainthecustomenvironment.
Thestep-by-stepflowisshowninFigure4. First,
Episode. 1 episode consists of 3 steps. One HTML the action determined by the learning module is ex-
elementisclickedperstep. Informationisresetat ecutedonthewebapplicationusingSelenium. Once
theendoftheepisode. theactioniscomplete,theHTMLelementsoftheweb
app are retrieved via Selenium. Then, event listen-
Observation. 2×n-dimensionalmatrix. Thefirstel-
ers attached to each element are obtained using the
ement of each row indicates whether the web el-
ChromeDevToolsProtocol.Iftheelementhasaclick
ement is on the screen, and the second element
eventlistener,itisdeterminedtobeclickable. Based
indicateswhetheritisclickable.
on this information, the state is updated and the re-
Action. TheindexoftheclickableHTMLelementin ward is calculated. Finally, the state and reward are
theHTMLelementdictionary. returnedtothelearningmodule,andvariousnetworks
Reward. If the first state is discovered, give +0.1; areupdated.
if the second is discovered, give +0.2; and if all Inthissystem,theuniquenessofHTMLelements
threearediscovered,give+1.0. was determined using the hash value of the DOM
element’s outerHTML. While there is a possibility
Becausethefirstcolumnintheactionspaceindi-
of hash collisions in complex web apps, the web
cates whether each HTML element is on screen, we
app used in this study only has elements with iden-
determinenewstatesbycomparingthoseconditions.
ticalouterHTML.Therefore,thehashvalueofouter-
The list of discovered states were reset at the end of
HTMLwasusedasauniqueIDforeachelement.
theepisode.
1004

## Page 5

UsingLLM-BasedDeepReinforcementLearningAgentstoDetectBugsinWebApplications
4.3 Exp. 2: PreliminaryExperiment
withRandomNoise
In this study, we use LLMs to infer whether HTML
elements are clickable, but the inference accuracy of
LLMsisnot100%. ThisisbecauseLLMsareproba- Figure5:Exp.4:SystemArchitecture.
bilisticmodels. Whileusinghigh-performancemod-
els or refining prompts can improve accuracy, it can
neverreach100%. Therefore,weintroducedrandom
noiseintotheclickabilityportionofthestatespacein
Exp. 1 to determine the level of inference accuracy
thatcanbetolerated. SinceLLMinferenceerrorsdif-
fer from random noise, we used random noise only
asaroughguideline. Inthisexperiment,therandom
noiseratiosweresetat0%,10%,and20%. Wecom-
paredlearningefficiencyandaccuracyforeachratio.
Figure6:Exp.1:AverageRewardTransition.
4.4 Exp. 3: InferenceofClickabilityby
LLMs
5 RESULTS
In Exp. 2, we examined how different ratios of ran-
dom noise affect learning efficiency and accuracy. 5.1 Exp. 1: ApplicationtoWebApps
Havingestablishedabenchmarkfortheaccuracythat
should be achieved by LLMs’ inference, In Exp. 3,
InExp.1,weexaminedchangesinlearningefficiency
weaimedtoimproveinferenceaccuracythroughen-
andaccuracybyutilizingclickinformation. Figure6
hancementstothemodelandprompts.
shows the transition of the average episode rewards
Inthisstudy,weuseinferenceresultsasthestate
after each epoch, based on the average reward ob-
inreinforcementlearning, soweneedtoperformin-
tained over 10 episodes. The solid line represents
ferenceateachstep. Usingpaidservicessuchasthe
the case without click information, while the dashed
OpenAI API is not cost-effective, so we built an in-
lineindicatesthecasewithclickinformation. When
ferenceenvironmentusingalocalLLM.Basedonthe
the clickability of HTML elements was included in
resultsofExp. 2,wesetabenchmarkandendedthe
the action space, both learning efficiency and accu-
experiment once we found a model-prompt combi-
racy improved compared to when click information
nation that exceeded it. We also manually extracted
wasnotincluded. Inthereinforcementlearningenvi-
40HTMLelementsfrommultiplewebsites. Thetar-
ronmentusedinthisstudy,themaximumrewardper
getwebsitesareGitHub,YouTube,CountCharacters,
episode is 1.3. With click information, it took only
andLetterFan. Tomirrortheconditionsofactualin-
fourepochstoachievearewardof1.3,whereaswith-
ference in web apps, we included both clickable and
out click information, it took 10 epochs. These re-
non-clickableelements.
sults confirm that, even in web apps, including the
interaction information of GUI elements in the state
4.5 Exp. 4: SubstitutionUsingLLMs improveslearningefficiencyandaccuracy.
InferenceResults
5.2 Exp. 2: PreliminaryExperiment
InExp.4,wereplacedthevectorindicatingclickabil- withRandomNoise
ityinthestatespaceusedinExp. 1withLLMinfer-
ence results for training. Figure 5 shows the system
In Exp. 2, we aimed to determine a benchmark for
overviewforExp. 4. TheLLMinferencewasimple-
inference accuracy by substituting part of the action
mentedasanAPIaccessibleonaserverindependent
spacewiththeinferenceresultsofanLLM.Figure7
of the learning module and environment. Since in-
shows the transition of the average episode rewards
ference takes time, executing it at every step would
when random noise is included at multiple ratios.
increase the simulation time. Therefore, we reduced
Evaluation was carried out at the end of each epoch.
inferencetimebycachingresponses,whichshortened
Each line represents results with 0%, 10%, or 20%
thetotaltrainingtime.
noise. The dotted line indicates 0%, the dashed line
1005

## Page 6

ICAART2025-17thInternationalConferenceonAgentsandArtificialIntelligence
[INSTRUCTION]
Determine whether the following HTML element is clickable
or not.
Answer 1 if the element is clickable, and 0 if it is not.
Please answer with 0 or 1, and answer only at the
beginning of your response. Do not include any
explanations.
Think with following the steps.
[ADVICE]
− Do not consider child elements in your judgment.
[THINKING STEPS]
1. Check if the given HTML element’s tag is inherently
clickable like <button> tags, <select> and so on.
Figure 7: Exp. 2: Average Reward Transition by Noise If so, the given html element is clickable.
Therefore return 1, and then finish thinking
Ratio.
sequence.
2. If not inherently clickable, it become clickable due
to an attribute. Examples include <a> tags with
indicates10%,andthesolidlineindicates20%. With
href attributes or<div> tags with onclick
0% noise, the agent reached a reward of 1.3 by the attributes and so on. If the element is clickable
due to this, return 1.
5thepoch;with10%noise,ittook6epochs;andwith 3. When elements such as class names or text content
suggest that they are clickable, they should be
20% noise, it took 4 epochs. Based on these results,
treated as clickable.
inExp. 3,weaimedforanLLMandpromptscapable
[EXAMPLES]
ofachievingatleast80%inferenceaccuracy. Here are some examples:
# Example 1:
Given HTML: <a href=”https://www.example.com”>Link</a>
5.3 Exp. 3: InferenceofClickabilityby Answer: 1
# Example 2:
LLMs Given HTML: <a>Link</a>
Answer: 0
# Example 3:
Given HTML: <p>Text</p>
InExp. 3,weexploredacombinationofanLLMand Answer: 0
# Example 4:
prompts capable of inferring clickability of HTML
Given HTML: <div><button>Click Me</button></div>
elements with over 80% accuracy. When selecting Answer: 0
# Example 5:
themodel,weprioritizedrunningonalocalmachine Given HTML: <button>Click Me</button>
and inference performance. As a result, we chose Answer: 1
# Example 6:
google/gemma-7b. Figure8showstheprompt,which Given HTML: <div onclick=”alert(’Clicked!’)”>Click Me</
div>
takes HTML as input and returns 0 or 1 to indicate Answer: 1
whetheranelementisclickable.Thepromptstructure
[ACTUAL]
includedsectionsfor[INSTRUCTION]togivecom- GIVENHTML:
mands, [ADVICE] for inference advice, [THINK-
Figure8:PromptforInference.
INGSTEPS]tooutlinethethoughtprocess,and[EX-
AMPLES]toprovideconcreteexamples. bleinthefigure,thedashedanddottedlinesoverlap,
Asaresult, theinferenceresultsonthemanually indicatingnoobservabledifferenceinlearningperfor-
extractedvalidationdataaveraged81.5%overfivetri- manceuptothe12thepoch,regardlessofLLMusage.
als. Additionally, the inference accuracy in the cus- Inthisenvironment,themaximumachievablereward
tomwebapplicationaveraged100.0%overfivetrials. per episode is 1.3. With click information (whether
using LLM or not), the agent reached 1.3 by the 5th
5.4 Exp. 4: SubstitutionUsingLLMs epoch,whereaswithoutclickinformation,ittookun-
InferenceResults tilthe11thepoch. Theseresultsconfirmthatinclud-
ing LLM inference as part of the state attains learn-
ing efficiency and accuracy comparable to using di-
In Exp. 4, the LLM and prompts selected in Exp. 3
rectclickinformation.
wereusedtoinferwhetherHTMLelementsareclick-
able,andtheseresultswereincorporatedintothestate
spaceforDRL.
Figure 9 shows the training results. The graph 6 DISCUSSION
represents the average reward obtained across 10
episodesaftereachepoch.Thesolidlineindicatesthe
6.1 ImprovingAccuracy
scenario without click information, the dashed line
shows the scenario using LLM-based inference, and
TheaimofthisstudyistodemonstratethatLLMin-
the dotted line corresponds to the scenario without
ference results can be utilized as states in DRL. By
LLM-basedinference. Althoughitisnotclearlyvisi-
simplifyingthewebapplicationtoaminimalconfig-
1006

## Page 7

UsingLLM-BasedDeepReinforcementLearningAgentstoDetectBugsinWebApplications
posed method is. Though not included in this paper
due to time constraints, we are currently conducting
theexperiment.
Therearetwoissuesingeneralizingtheproposed
method. The first is whether the values inferred by
theLLMandaddedtothestatecontributetoimprov-
ing learning efficiency and accuracy. In this study,
we inferred clickability and added it to the state be-
cause previous research had shown that adding it to
the state improves learning efficiency and accuracy.
Figure9:Exp.4:AverageRewardTransition.
However, in environments other than web apps, it is
often unclear what kind of values contribute to im-
uration,weconfirmedthatsubstitutingwithLLMin-
proving learning efficiency and accuracy. Therefore,
ference is effective. The web app used in this study
it is necessary to establish a method to evaluate how
has a simple structure and uses representative tags
important the inferred values are. The second issue
like button and div. However, typical web apps are
isdeterminingthedegreeofaccuracyrequiredforthe
morecomplex,sothesystemdevelopedinthisstudy
inferred values added to the state. In this study, pre-
maynotachievesufficientinferenceaccuracy,poten-
liminaryexperimentsledustojudgethataninference
tiallyhinderingsuccessfullearning. Therefore,when
accuracy of 80% or higher is sufficient. However,
applying this approach to more general web apps, it
this threshold is likely to vary depending on the en-
isnecessarynotonlytorefinetheLLMandprompts
vironment and the values to be inferred. Therefore,
butalsotoimproveinferenceaccuracythroughmodel
an evaluation method is needed to set guidelines for
fine-tuningandpartiallysupervisedlearning. Inaddi-
inferenceaccuracy.
tion to improving inference accuracy, enhancing the
robustnessofDRLisalsoimportant. DRLisknown
for its robustness to noise, although the level of ro- 6.3 ApplicationtoOtherFields
bustness varies among models. In this study, we se-
lectedPPOforitsstabilityintraining,butbyusinga Possibleapplicationsofthisstudyincludeblack-box
modelthatismoreresistanttonoise,itwillbepossi- environmentslikeconsumergamesanddomainsthat
bletobuildasystemthatisevenmorerobusttoLLM handle complex environmental information, such as
noise. autonomous driving. In consumer games, there is
typically no API to obtain environment information;
6.2 Generalization however, by using an LLM to infer environmental
data from images, these games can be more easily
utilizedasDRLtasks. Inautonomousdriving,which
Inthisstudy,weconductedtrainingusinganoriginal
often involves high-dimensional camera footage, ex-
webappasthetarget. Furthermore,wedemonstrated
tractingsummaryinformationfromimagesorvideos
thatincludingthevaluesinferredbytheLLMintothe
withanLLMandincorporatingitintothestatespace
statespaceimproveslearningefficiencyandaccuracy.
is expected to improve learning efficiency. For ex-
Inpriorresearchfocusingonmobileapps(Romdhana
ample,byinferringdangerlevelsandincludingthem
et al., 2022), 68 open-source apps selected from Su
in the state space, the system can be guided toward
et al.’s paper were used. On the other hand, for web
safer actions. The extensive knowledge contained in
apps,nogeneralizedtestsetexists. Therefore,toval-
LLMsisanticipatedtosupportlearningintheseenvi-
idate general apps, it is necessary to start from the
ronments.
creationofatestset.
One of the factors that improved learning effi-
ciencyandaccuracybyutilizingtheinferenceresults
oftheLLMinthisstudyisthatthelearningtargetwas 7 CONCLUSIONS
asimple,originalwebapp. Whenthewebappbeing
learned becomes more complex, the number of pos- In this study, we demonstrated that in DRL-based
sible states increases, leading to an expansion of the GUIblack-boxtestingforwebapplications,learning
statespace. SincetheinferenceaccuracyoftheLLM efficiencyandaccuracycanbeimprovedbyusingin-
isnot100%,thereisariskthatlearningefficiencyand ferred clickability from HTML as part of the state.
accuracymaydecreasewhenthestatespacebecomes Clickabilityisrestrictiveinformationthatdependson
bloated. Therefore,itisnecessarytoconducttraining thebrowser.First,weusedclickinformationobtained
oncomplexwebappstoverifyhoweffectivethepro- via the Chrome DevTools Protocol and trained with
1007

## Page 8

ICAART2025-17thInternationalConferenceonAgentsandArtificialIntelligence
the Chrome driver, resulting in more efficient learn- Eskonen,J.,Kahles,J.,andReijonen,J.(2020). Automat-
ingandhigheraccuracy. Next,wesetupanenviron- ingguitestingwithimage-baseddeepreinforcement
menttoinferclickabilityfromHTMLandaddedthe learning. In2020IEEEInternationalConferenceon
Autonomic Computing and Self-Organizing Systems
inferenceresultstothestate,whichledtoequallyef-
(ACSOS),pages160–167.
ficient learning and improved accuracy compared to
Google(2024). Playconsolehelp. https://support.google.
not using the LLM-inferred values. This shows that
com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9859751?
inDRL,incorporatingLLMinferenceresultsaspart
hl=en. AccessDate:2024-05-23.
of the state is effective. As future work, it will be
Itkonen,J.andRautiainen,K.(2005).Exploratorytesting:a
necessary to validate on more complex web applica- multiplecasestudy.In2005InternationalSymposium
tionsandtoverifyothertypesofinformationbeyond onEmpiricalSoftwareEngineering, 2005., pages10
clickability. pp.–.
Kwon,M.,Xie,S.M.,Bullard,K.,andSadigh,D.(2023).
Rewarddesignwithlanguagemodels.InTheEleventh
International Conference on Learning Representa-
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
tions.
OpenAI(2024a). Openaigym. https://github.com/openai/
This paper uses ChatGPT’s o1-preview and 4o for gym.
translations from Japanese to English. This work OpenAI (2024b). Proximal policy optimization. https://
was supported by JSPS KAKENHI Grant Numbers openai.com/index/openai-baselines-ppo/.
JP22K12157,JP23K28377,JP24H00714. Raffin, A., Hill, A., Gleave, A., Kanervisto, A., Ernestus,
M.,andDormann,N.(2021).Stable-baselines3:Reli-
ablereinforcementlearningimplementations.Journal
ofMachineLearningResearch,22(268):1–8.
REFERENCES
Romdhana, A., Merlo, A., Ceccato, M., and Tonella, P.
(2022). Deep reinforcement learning for black-box
Adamo, D., Khan, M. K., Koppula, S., and Bryce, R. testing of android apps. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng.
(2018). Reinforcementlearningforandroidguitest- Methodol.,31(4).
ing. InProceedingsofthe9thACMSIGSOFTInter- Schulman, J., Wolski, F., Dhariwal, P., Radford, A., and
nationalWorkshoponAutomatingTESTCaseDesign,
Klimov,O.(2017). Proximalpolicyoptimizational-
Selection, and Evaluation, A-TEST 2018, page 2–8, gorithms.
NewYork,NY,USA.AssociationforComputingMa-
Sneha, K. and Malle, G. M. (2017). Research on soft-
chinery.
waretestingtechniquesandsoftwareautomationtest-
Apple(2024). Appreview. https://developer.apple.com/jp/ ing tools. In 2017 International Conference on En-
distribute/app-review. AccessDate:2024-05-23. ergy,Communication,DataAnalyticsandSoftCom-
Bertolino,A.(2007). Softwaretestingresearch: Achieve- puting(ICECDS),pages77–81.
ments,challenges,dreams. InFutureofSoftwareEn- Tao,C.,Wang,F.,Gao,Y.,Guo,H.,andGao,J.(2024). A
gineering(FOSE’07),pages85–103.
reinforcementlearning-basedapproachtotestinggui
Brown,T.B.,Mann,B.,Ryder,N.,Subbiah,M.,Kaplan,J., ofmobileapplications. WorldWideWeb,27(2).
Dhariwal,P.,Neelakantan,A.,Shyam,P.,Sastry,G., Wetzlmaier, T., Ramler, R., and Putscho¨gl, W. (2016). A
Askell, A., Agarwal, S., Herbert-Voss, A., Krueger, frameworkformonkeyguitesting. In2016IEEEIn-
G., Henighan, T., Child, R., Ramesh, A., Ziegler, ternationalConferenceonSoftwareTesting,Verifica-
D.M.,Wu,J.,Winter,C.,Hesse,C.,Chen,M.,Sigler, tionandValidation(ICST),pages416–423.
E.,Litwin,M.,Gray,S.,Chess,B.,Clark,J.,Berner,
Xia, T., Yu, B., Wu, Y., Chang, Y., and Zhou, C. (2024).
C., McCandlish, S., Radford, A., Sutskever, I., and
Languagemodelscanevaluatethemselvesviaproba-
Amodei, D. (2020). Language models are few-shot
bilitydiscrepancy.
learners.
Yoon,J.,Feldt,R.,andYoo,S.(2023). Autonomouslarge
Cai, L., Wang, J., Cheng, M., and Wang, J. (2021). Au-
languagemodelagentsenablingintent-drivenmobile
tomated testing of android applications integrating
guitesting.
residualnetworkanddeepreinforcementlearning.
You,E.(2024). Vue.js. https://ja.vuejs.org/.
Carlini,N.andWagner,D.(2017). Towardsevaluatingthe
robustnessofneuralnetworks. In2017IEEESympo-
siumonSecurityandPrivacy(SP),pages39–57,Los
Alamitos,CA,USA.IEEEComputerSociety.
Chang, Y., Wang, X., Wang, J., Wu, Y., Yang, L., Zhu,
K., Chen, H., Yi, X., Wang, C., Wang, Y., Ye, W.,
Zhang, Y., Chang, Y., Yu, P. S., Yang, Q., and Xie,
X.(2024). Asurveyonevaluationoflargelanguage
models. ACMTrans.Intell.Syst.Technol.,15(3).
1008

