# 2103.06018V1

**Source:** 2103.06018v1.pdf  
**Converted:** 2026-01-26 09:22:09

---

## Page 1

Automatic Web Testing Using Curiosity-Driven
Reinforcement Learning
Yan Zheng†,‡,∗, Yi Liu‡, ,∗, Xiaofei Xie‡,(cid:0), Yepang Liu , Lei Ma (cid:62) , Jianye Hao†, and Yang Liu‡
(cid:72) (cid:72)
†Tianjin University, Tianjin, China; ‡Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Dept. of Comp. Sci. and Engr., Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain-inspired Intelligent Computation,
(cid:72)
(cid:62)
Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China; Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
Abstract—Web testing has long been recognized as a noto- homepage
riously difficult task. Even nowadays, web testing still heavily
relies on manual efforts while automated web testing is far 0
fromachievinghuman-levelperformance.Keychallengesinweb
testing include dynamic content update and deep bugs hiding
1 4 6
under complicated user interactions and specific input values,
unknown pages
which can only be triggered by certain action sequences in
web pages
the huge search space. In this paper, we propose WebExplor, 7 2 5
invalid operations
an automatic end-to-end web testing framework, to achieve
operations
an adaptive exploration of web applications. WebExplor adopts
3 navigation model
curiosity-driven reinforcement learning to generate high-quality
activate an operation
actionsequences(testcases)satisfyingtemporallogicalrelations.
Besides, WebExplor incrementally builds an automaton during
Fig.1. Anintuitivevisualizationofexploringwebpages.
the online testing process, which provides high-level guidance to
further improve the testing efficiency. We have conducted com- the web application’s graphical user interface (GUI) [2, 3,
prehensive evaluations of WebExplor on six real-world projects,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]. However, such manual work is labor-
a commercial SaaS web application, and performed an in-the-
intensive and costly, where the testing effectiveness heavily
wild study of the top 50 web applications in the world. The
results demonstrate that in most cases WebExplor can achieve depends on the human testers’ domain knowledge. Besides,
significantly higher failure detection rate, code coverage and web applications frequently evolve and the manually written
efficiency than existing state-of-the-art web testing techniques. test cases normally require substantial modifications before
WebExplor also detected 12 previously unknown failures in the
testing the new versions [11, 12].
commercial web application, which have been confirmed and
Random-basedapproaches[13,14]generatepseudo-random
fixed by the developers. Furthermore, our in-the-wild study
further uncovered 3,466 exceptions and errors. operations to fuzz the web applications. Despite the wide
adoption in practical development, the shortcomings of such
I. INTRODUCTION
approaches are obvious. That is, they often create invalid test
The past decades have witnessed the unprecedentedly rapid cases like performing input operations on buttons. Also, the
development and innovation of web technologies. Nowadays, testing is unbalanced and some hard-to-reach web pages may
web applications have become as powerful as native desktop never be explored.
applications. They are competitively convenient and do not
Model-based approaches [15, 16, 17, 18, 19] build a nav-
require complicated installation either. However, web applica-
igation model of the web application under testing, and then
tions can be difficult to test due to their complicated business
generate test cases accordingly by random or sophisticated
logicimplementedindifferentlanguagesacrosstheclientand
search strategies. In spite of the guidance of the navigation
server side (e.g., HTML, JavaScript, C# and Java). In general,
model,existingapproachesstillsufferfromseverallimitations.
themorewebpagesareexploredwithmorestatescovered,the
Firstly, the constructed navigation model may cover only a
higher the possibility of discovering defects becomes. Hence,
part of the web application, restricting the exploration power
various kinds of approaches have been proposed to achieve a
of the generated test cases. As depicted in Fig. 1, pages 6
sufficient exploration by generating test cases.
and 7 cannot be tested as they are not included in the
Manual designing with the aid of automation frameworks
navigationmodel.Also,domainknowledgeisusuallyrequired
such as Selenium [1] is a useful way to create test cases.
in building high-quality models [15]. Besides, the content of
The tester is required to create test scripts, simulating user
web applications is usually dynamically updated (e.g., via
operations (e.g., clicking buttons and filling in forms) on
JavaScript code execution), which cannot be easily captured
(cid:0)Correspondingauthor:XiaofeiXie. bythestaticnavigationmodels.Secondly,inwebapplications,
∗ YanZhengandYiLiucontributedequallytothiswork. long sequences of actions (e.g., path 0 → 1 → 2 → 3) are
1202
raM
01
]ES.sc[
1v81060.3012:viXra

## Page 2

often needed to complete certain tasks such as filling in and !"#$%&’()*+,+%-’.#%*),, !"#$%&’()*+,+%-’.#%*),,
submitting forms. The business logic of real-world web appli-
cations can be arbitrarily complex. For example, page 7 can state state
bevisitedonlywhenpage5 isproperlynavigated.Itcouldbe action browser action browser
reward reward
challenging for random or search-based strategies [5, 15, 20]
to generate effective action sequences. agent agent
To address the aforementioned challenges, an effective and timeline
t t ... t
end-to-end automatic testing is needed. Recently, reinforce- 0 i j
mentlearning(RL)hasdemonstrateditspotentialforlearning
Fig.2. WebinteractionsasaMarkovdecisionprocess.
a policy to test and interact with complicated games [21, 22,
23, 24] or Android applications [25, 26, 27], which provides
level guidance (from the reward function) and the high-level
the possibility of applying RL on automatic web testing.
guidance (from the DFA) play important roles in achieving
However, existing techniques cannot be easily adapted to test
effective web testing. To demonstrate the effectiveness of
web applications for the following reasons. Firstly, the testing
our technique, we implemented WebExplor and conducted a
domains are different, which make the RL modeling totally
large-scale evaluation on a research benchmark of six real-
different. For example, the reward function may be different.
world projects [15] and a commercial SaaS web application.
Game playing usually has concrete goals to achieve (e.g.,
We also conducted an in-the-wild study of the top 50 web
winning the game or maximizing a score), which is not the
applications in the world [32]. The contributions of this paper
case in web testing. The state definition and abstraction are
are summarized as follows.
different either. Game playing [23] defines the state based
on the outputs of APIs and Android testing [25] uses an • We propose a novel web testing framework, WebExplor,
to efficiently and effectively test real-world web appli-
existing tool UIAutomator [28] to extract structures as the
cations. To the best of our knowledge, WebExplor is
states,whicharebothnotapplicableinwebtesting.Secondly,
the first end-to-end web testing framework leveraging
one fundamental challenge of RL is how to perform effective
reinforcement learning.
exploration especially when the space of the environment is
huge [29, 30]. The existing techniques [21, 23, 31] mainly • Weproposeacuriosity-drivenrewardfunctionandaDFA
to guide RL to efficiently explore diverse behaviors of
guide the exploration with simple reward functions, which
web applications.
could be ineffective for web applications that have complex
business logic and frequent dynamic update. Thus, more • We comprehensively evaluate WebExplor on six open-
source web applications, a commercial web applica-
effective exploration is needed for RL-based web testing.
tion, and top 50 real-world web applications. In the
Considering the dynamic and highly interactive nature of
commercial application, 12 previously unknown failures,
webapplications,aneffectivemodel-freewebtestingtechnol-
including logical and security defects, are discovered by
ogycanbehighlydesirable.Inthispaper,weproposeanovel
WebExplor, and confirmed and fixed by the developers.
web testing framework, named WebExplor, which performs
Furthermore, 3,466 exceptions and errors are discovered
an end-to-end automated web testing. WebExplor leverages
in the top 50 web applications.
RL to perform an adaptive exploration of web applications
and generate high-quality action sequences, which may be
II. PRELIMINARIES
prerequisite operations (e.g., filling forms before submission)
A. Web Application and Reinforcement Learning
for discovering new pages. In particular, WebExplor performs
an on-the-fly testing while constantly training the agent poli- A typical web application requires the end user to input a
cies (rather than the usual AI solutions that can only be used sequence of actions (e.g., clicks) to interact, which, in turn,
after training). To achieve both high coverage and efficiency will change the web application’s states (e.g., URL or GUI).
during testing, we first propose the state abstraction based This process can be modeled as a Markov Decision Process
on the HTML pages. Then, we propose a curiosity-driven (MDP) [33]. MDP can be defined as a 4-tuple (cid:104)S,A,R,P(cid:105),
reward function, which provides low-level guidance for the where S,A represent the sets of states and actions, respec-
exploration of RL such that the learned policy could explore tively. As shown in Fig. 2, the agent (tester) interacts with the
more behaviors of the web applications. To avoid falling into environment (browser) over the time horizon. At timestamp t,
local optima, especially when the learning space is huge, we the agent observes the state s ∈ S of the web applications
t
furtherproposeadeterministicfiniteautomaton(DFA)guided (e.g., GUI or HTML), and selects an action a ∈ A to
t
exploration strategy that provides high-level guidance for RL execute, after which, the agent receives an immediate reward
to efficiently explore the web applications. In particular, the r =R(s ,a ),andtheenvironmentcanchangetoanewstate
t t t
DFA records the transitions and states visited during the RL s ∼P(s ,a ). The R(·) and P(·) are reward function and
t+1 t t
exploration and is continuously updated. When RL gets stuck probability transition function, both of which depend only on
(i.e., cannot find a new state within a given time budget), preceding s and a .
t t
WebExplor selects one path from DFA based on the curiosity Intelligently,theagentselectsanactiona∼π(s)toexecute
andguidesRLtoexplorealongthispathfurther.Boththelow- according to a probabilistic policy function π(·). The agent

## Page 3

1 Definition3(TestCase):Atestcaseisasequenceofactions
(a ,··· ,a ,···) with necessary input values.
0 t
2 3 For example, in Fig. 3, the “add-owner” function consists
4 of three parts: navigating to the adding page, filling the form
5
and clicking the submit button. One feasible action sequence
6
(in red) for testing the “add-owner” function is visualized in
7
8 Fig.3.Thissequencetogetherwithnecessaryinputsconstitute
a test case (a ,··· ,a ). When operating on an inputtable
0 7
element,ourtechniquewillprovideasuitablevaluetomakea
Homepage Add-owner
test case continue, which will be detailed in the Section III-B.
Similar to the existing work [15], we say a test case fails
Fig.3. Theactionsequenceofaddinganewowner.
if exceptions or errors are thrown during the execution of the
test case, including the JavaScript runtime exceptions, client
interacting with the environment gives rise to a trajectory as errorsorservererrors,whichcanbeanalyzedviathereturning
follows: statuscode[34].Forsimplicity,werefertotheexceptionsand
errors as failures in the subsequent sections.
traj =(s ,a ,r ,··· ,s ,a ,r ,···), (1)
0 0 0 t t t Definition4(WebTesting):Forawebapplication,thetester
where the subscripts denote different timestamps over the aimsatlearninganadaptivepolicyπ tocontinuouslygenerate
finite time horizon. Each trajectory has a return, defined as test cases for web exploration and failure detection.
(cid:80)T γtr , where rewards are discounted by a factor γ ∈ Intuitively, the more states are uncovered, the higher the
t=0 t
[0,1). In general, RL aims at finding one optimal trajectory chance of finding failures is. Consequently, the goal of web
with the maximum return rather than diverse trajectories. testing is to generate test cases that can reach more diverse
However, this is often not the goal of web testing, which states, on which failures may be discovered. It is worth em-
seeks to explore diverse trajectories and states. Therefore, an phasizing that discovering test cases that can trigger business
adaptive reward function is required to guide RL to continu- logic (e.g., creating data) is critical for testing, as it may be a
ously generate diverse trajectories, which will be detailed in prerequisitefordiscoveringnewscenarios(e.g.,editingdata).
Section III-C.
III. AUTOMATICWEBTESTING
B. Problem Formulation A. An Overview of WebExplor
In general, given a web application, the goal of testing is Inanutshell,WebExplorisanend-to-endframeworkaiming
to generate action sequences along with suitable inputs in at achieving automatic web testing in an online fashion.
ordertoexplorediversestatesandbehaviorsoftheapplication, Its goal is to automatically generate diverse sequences of
potentially covering more logical application scenarios [15]. actions to explore more behaviors of the web application
Definition1(WebState):Astatesisadescriptionofaweb under testing. To achieve this, WebExplor leverage curiosity-
application’s current status (e.g., the HTML page). driven reinforcement learning (RL) to constantly optimize a
From a human perspective, the image (i.e., screenshot) policy, which can generate diverse test cases. In particular,
that captures the changes of the HTML page is a natural the RL training and web testing are intertwined, which is
representation of web states. However, due to the wide use of differentfromusualAIsolutionsthatperformstrainingbefore
animations,imagesmaynotreliablyrepresentwebstates(e.g., deploying. Fig. 4 shows an overview of WebExplor, which
two completely different images may correspond to the same comprises three major components. 1 The pre-processing
state of a web application). In comparison, the HTML page’s component maps an HTML page to an abstract state. Its main
code is a more precise representation as it encodes the URL purpose is to avoid the state explosion caused by dynamic
and the structural characteristics of HTML pages. Thus, we updatesinawebpage,suchthatagoodpolicycanbelearned
propose a novel state representation by analyzing the HTML effectively. 2 Thecuriosity-drivenpolicylearningcomponent
page’scode(inSecIII-B).Unlessstatedotherwise,aconcrete is designed for learning a policy that could explore diverse
HTML page instance is referred to as the state. states of the web application. 3 The DFA-guided exploration
Definition 2 (Action): An action a is a valid operation in a component further improves the efficiency of the exploration
given web state (i.e., an HTML page). of RL by maintaining a continuously updated deterministic
Givenawebstate,wefocusontheoperableDOMelements finite automaton (DFA) that records all visited states and their
(e.g., links, buttons or input boxes), on which the operations frequencies. When RL cannot discover new states within a
may result in changes of application status (e.g., submitting a certain time budget, WebExplor selects one novel state as
form or URL jumping). It is worth mentioning that, different the starting point of the next exploration based on the global
statesmaycontaindifferentactionDOMsets.Forexample,in information of DFA, so as to avoid being trapped around the
Fig. 3, the homepage has 5 valid actions (i.e., elements in the local optima.
navigation bar) while the “add-owner” page has 6 more valid Algorithm1presentsthedetailsofourapproach.WebExplor
actions (input boxes and a button). takes the target web application env and the pre-processing

## Page 4

Action Sequence
Failed Tests
Oracle Curious Trace
Selection Curiosity Model
Low-level
State Abstraction Yes State Curiosity
State High-level No Reward
Update DFA Adaptive Policy
HTML Element Filter DFA Guidance?
Actions
page
Preprocessing DFA-guided Exploration 3 Curiosity-based Policy Learning 2
1
Next Action
Fig.4. TheWorkflowofWebExplor.
function φ as the inputs and outputs a set of failed test cases Algorithm 1: WebExplor
F. WebExplor first initializes the policy π, the DFA M, and Input : The target web application env, the pre-processing
the failed test set F (Line 1). Then, it continuously tests the function φ(·)
web application until the pre-defined time budget exhausts Output: The set of failed test cases F
(Line 2). During testing, to avoid reaching “stuck webpages” 1 Initialize policy π, DFA M and test case set F =∅
2 repeat
thatcannotjumptootherpagesandcontinuefurther,welimit
3 p(cid:48) :=reset(env)
themaximumnumberofstepsforonetestcase(Line7).After 4 act:=[(cid:15)]
reaching the maximum number, we reset the web application: 5 s(cid:48) :=φ(p(cid:48))
jumptothedefaulthomepagep(cid:48) (Line3),settheinitialaction 6 t:=[s(cid:48)]
sequence, which includes only an empty action (cid:15) (Line 4), 7 repeat
and gets the initial state s(cid:48) (Line 5). Each test case starts 8 p,failed:=env(p(cid:48),act) (cid:46) on-the-fly testing
9 if failed then
from the initial state, i.e., the homepage (Line 6). WebExplor 10 F :=F (cid:83) {t}
performs on-the-fly testing by executing the current action
11 1 s,va = φ(p) (cid:46) see Algorithm 2
sequence act on the current page p(cid:48) (Line 8) (e.g., submitting 12 update valid actions of π(s) using va
a form). During the execution, WebExplor monitors the status 13 if no curious state within some time then
of the browser’s console such that failures can be captured 14 3 act:=selectTrace(M) (cid:46) see Algorithm 3
automatically. The environment returns a new HTML page 15 p(cid:48) =reset(env)
p and the error status. If an error is found, the test case is 16 update the number of the current steps with the
action sequence act
added into the failed test set (Line 10). WebExplor encodes
17 continue
the current page and returns the corresponding state s and
validactionsvainthestates(cid:48) (Line11).IfWebExplor cannot 18 2 calculate r=curiosity(s(cid:48),a,s)
19 a:=act[−1]
identify a new state within a certain amount of time, the RL 20 train policy π using (s(cid:48),a,r,s) (cid:46) Q-learning
may enter into the local optima. WebExplor checks the DFA 21 update DFA d using transition (s(cid:48),a,s)
d that records the global visit information, and selects one 22 t.append(a,s) (cid:46) store state-action sequence
trace that is less visited (Line 14). It returns the trace t and 23 act:=[π(s)]
24 s(cid:48) =s
theactionsequenceact,fromwhichthetracecanberestored.
25 p(cid:48) =p
The web application is then reset to the homepage (Line 15) 26 until reach maximum steps;
and the number of the current steps is set with the length of 27 until until time budget exhausts;
trace t (Line 16). 28 return F
Afterastatesisexplored,WebExplor calculatesthecurios-
ityrewardr(Line18).Thepolicyπ istrainedwiththecurrent
transition (s(cid:48),a,s) and its reward r (Line 20). In addition,
the DFA d and the current test case are updated with the dynamic nature of web applications. For example, HTML
transition(Lines21–22).Thenextactionisselectedbyfeeding documents can be different if the user operates differently
thecurrentstatestothepolicyπ(Line23).Then,theprevious (e.g., different form values or infinite scrolling pages). Thus,
state and HTML page are updated (Lines 24–25). adoptingHTMLdocumentasstatesoftensuffersfromthestate
explosion problem, resulting in low effectiveness of RL [35].
B. Pre-Processing
To overcome such a limitation, we propose a novel state
For policy learning via reinforcement learning, we need representation. The intuition is that HTML pages that focus
to define the state representation. A straightforward way is on the same business logic should be consolidated into one
to leverage web page representations (e.g., GUI or HTML state. For example, in a webpage, the content of a table may
document).However,ifoneadoptssuchamethod,thenumber be updated constantly (e.g., by adding or removing items).
of states can be quite large and even infinite due to the Although the HTML document may vary a lot, the pages still

## Page 5

Algorithm 2: Pre-processing φ mayrepresentthesamebusiness-logic,creatingmultiplestates
corresponding to the same business-logic (Line 5). However,
Input : HTML page p=(cid:104)url,html doc(cid:105)
Output: State s, Valid action set va such a correspondence causes little performance loss and
1 Let S be the current state set of the web application doesn’t affect WebExplor’s soundness.
2 va:=retrieveValidElement(html doc) Meanwhile, WebExplor focuses on generating action se-
3 for s∈S do
quences rather than input values, even though input values
4 Fetch (cid:104)url(cid:48),html doc(cid:48)(cid:105) from the existing state s
5 if url(cid:54)=url(cid:48) then can also affect the testing procedure. To be aligned with prior
6 continue works[15,38]andcarryouttestingprocedure,whenoperating
7 sim:=computeSimlarity(html doc,html doc(cid:48)) on inputtable elements, random values will be generated
8 if sim>threshold then according to the W3C standards [39]. Note that, WebExplor
9 return s,va can leverage dictionaries or user-specified values to enhance
thetestingcapability,whichwillbestudiedasthefuturework.
10 Create new state s using (cid:104)url,html doc(cid:105)
(cid:83)
11 S :=S {s}
12 return s,va C. Testing via Curiosity-Driven RL
WebExplor leverages RL to achieve an end-to-end testing
by directly interacting with the web applications. Specifically,
look similar and handle the same user interactions. We do not the purpose is to learn a policy (i.e., π) that provides an
treat such pages as different states. exploration strategy to generate diverse test cases. To achieve
GivenanHTMLpage,weuseitsURLandHTMLdocument such a policy, we need to define an effective reward function
as the approximation of the business logic. It is intuitive that that determines the optimal policy.
if two pages have the same URL and their HTML documents Reward function. Common RL tasks (e.g., game playing)
are very similar, they are more likely to focus on the same usually have a concrete goal such as winning a game or
business logic. We argue that such similar pages represent achieving a high score, which eases the design of the reward
the same state, and Algorithm 2 describes how to distinguish functions [40, 41]. However, in web testing, reward function
different pages. The basic idea is to calculate the HTML design becomes challenging as the goal is vague, i.e., to
structure similarity of two pages. If the structure similarity explore as many different behaviors of the web applications
(viatag-wisecomparison[36])isaboveathreshold,itismore as possible. Moreover, a web application can be dynamically
likely that they focus on the same business logic and should updated, indicating that the goal should also be dynamically
be considered as the same state. Algorithm 2 takes the code adjusted. To address the challenge, we leverage the notion of
oftheHTMLpageastheinputandoutputsthestatesaswell curiosity, which has been proposed to counter the problem of
as a set of valid actions va in the current page. We use S to coarse reward in RL [42, 43]. Specifically, we have devised
represent the existing states during testing. a curiosity-driven reward function that adopts a general and
adaptivemechanismtoguidetheexplorationsuchthatdiverse
We adopt the browser built-in protocols [37] to filter some
states could be reached. For curiosity measurement (Line 18
elements (e.g., no rendering or invisible) and only keep the
in Algorithm 1), during testing, WebExplor maintains a visit
ones that can be operated on, i.e., valid actions on this page
count table to record the number of each transition (denoted
(Line 2). These elements include the clickable buttons, links,
by N(s(cid:48),a,s)). The curiosity is measured by MBIE-EB [44]:
input boxes, selectors. Next, we check the similarity between
the current page p and pages in the previous states until one
1
similar state is found. Specifically, for each previous state curiosity(s(cid:48),a,s)= (cid:112) . (2)
N(s(cid:48),a,s)
s, we obtain its page information (Line 4) and calculate the
similarity between p and the page in s as follows. Firstly, we N(s(cid:48),a,s) is initialized to 1. Each time when the state s(cid:48)
comparetheirURLs.Intuitively,iftheURLsarenotthesame,
transits to s by performing the action a, the corresponding
thepagesoftentendtoexecutedifferentbusinesslogic.Hence, N(s(cid:48),a,s) is increased by 1.
wedonotcountthemtobethesamestate(Line5).Otherwise,
Q-Learning.WebExplor leveragesamodel-freeRLalgorithm
wecalculatethesimilaritybetweenthetwoHTMLdocuments
Q-learning [45] to optimize the policy with the curiosity-
(Line7).Morespecifically,weconvertanHTMLdocumentto driven reward. Q-learning has a function Q : S ×A → R,
asequenceoftagsandadoptthegestaltpatternmatching[36]
which returns the Q-value for a state-action pair. Each time
algorithmtocalculatethesimilaritybetweentwosequences.If a new state s is reached from the previous state s(cid:48) (i.e.,
the similarity is above a pre-defined threshold, the previously (s(cid:48),a,s)),weupdatetheQfunction(Line20inAlgorithm1):
existing state s and va are returned (Line 9). Note that, we
extract all tags in the HTML document without any filtering Q(s(cid:48),a)=curiosity(s(cid:48),a)+λmax a(cid:48)Q(s,a(cid:48)), (3)
so that no feature information in HTML will get lost. If the
current page does not match any existing states, we create a where λ ∈ [0,1] is a discount factor. The Q function keeps
newstatesusingthecurrentpage’scode(Line10),additinto thetemporalrelationsbetweenactionssincetheQ-valueswill
S andreturntheresults.ItisworthnotingthatdifferentURLs propagate to the ones in antecedent states recursively.

## Page 6

root state root state root state root state
a(0,1) 0 0 0 a(0,6) 0
0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9
1 4 6 1 4 6 1 4 6 1 4 6
2 5 2 5 7 2 5 7 2 5 s 0 s m+1
3 3 3
activatea(1,7)
3
(a) (b) (c) (d)
Fig.6. Anintuitiveillustrationoftransitioninlongpath.
discovered state undiscovered state discovered action undiscovered action
Algorithm 3: selectTrace
Fig.5. Anintuitiveillustrationofcuriositymodel.
Input : DFA M
Output: Action set act
BasedontheQfunction,thepolicyπ measurestheweights 1 (s m ,a m ,s m+1 ):=argmax (s(cid:48),a,s)∈δ (curiosity((s(cid:48),a,s)));
2 Find the shortest trace
of the valid actions in a state s using the Gumbel-Softmax tr:=(s ,a ,s ,a ,...,s ,a ,s );
0 0 1 1 m m m+1
method [46]: 3 return (a 0 ,a 1 ,...,a m );
exp(Q(s,a)+ga)
p(a)= τ (4)
(cid:80) exp(Q(s,ai)+gi) D. DFA-Guided Exploration
ai∈A τ
Explorationiswidelyregardedasoneofthemostchalleng-
where A is the valid action set at the state s, τ = 1 is ing problems of reinforcement learning [33, 42, 43]. In the
a temperature coefficient, and g (·) are i.i.d noise sampled web application, a function is usually triggered by executing
from Gumbel(0,1) distribution. An action with a higher Q- the actions in the specific order (e.g., the approval process in
value is more likely to be selected for interaction (Line 23 in theOfficeAutomation(OA)system).Theexplorationbecomes
Algorithm 1). more challenging as the sequence of actions gets longer. Al-
ThisenablesWebExplortobalancebetweenexplorationand thoughthecuriosity-drivenrewardfunctionprovidesguidance
exploitation. Actions that discover a new state are given a for the action selection, due to its stochastic nature, RL may
high curiosity reward and are more likely to be selected for still have low probability to select other actions especially
the execution. This trait ensures efficient exploitation as such in a long sequence of actions, interrupting the testing of the
actions have high possibility in discovering diverse behaviors. target function. Consider the example in Fig. 6, a policy π
In the meantime, the curiosity decreases along with the action with 0.9 probability of selecting right actions (red arrow) to
execution, making other less executed actions to be selected state s . However,the possibilityof reaching s is only
m+1 m+1
for execution. This facilitates sufficient exploration and helps (0.9)5 = 0.53 since the path can be interrupted whenever
to find complex business logic in the web application, as we the policy takes an action. The longer a path becomes, the
will demonstrate in our evaluation. more frequent an interruption may occur, making reaching a
Example. Fig. 5 illustrates how the curiosity-based RL works desirabletransitionharder,especiallywhenfacingalongpath.
for web testing and how it can explore complex business To address this challenge, we propose to build an on-the-
logic. Assume that WebExplor starts from the root state s fly deterministic finite automaton (DFA) during the testing,
0
and different action a ∼ π(s) can be selected for execution. which provides a high-level guidance for boosting the RL
Executing actions cause state transitions, e.g., a results in exploration. Specifically, if new states cannot be found after
(0,1)
s → s . Initially, the probability of choosing a , a , some time, WebExplor starts to find a transition, which has
0 1 (0,1) (0,4)
and a are the same. Assume that s is firstly covered the highest curiosity, from the DFA. Then, the shortest path
(0,6) 3
throughtheredpath(Fig.5(a)),thenthevalueofQ(s ,a ), thatcanreachthetransitionisdetectedsuchthattheRLcould
2 (2,3)
Q(s ,a ), and Q(s ,a ) will be updated via back- directly reach this transition.
1 (1,2) 0 (0,1)
propagation through the path. In this way, the temporal re- Definition5(DFA):Adeterministicfiniteautomaton(DFA)
lations (along this path) is built and encoded in the policy π. M isa5-tuple(S,A,δ,s ,F),whereS isafinitesetofstates,
0
The curiosity reward curiosity(s ,a ,s ) is decreased. In A is a set of actions, δ : S ×A → S is a set of transitions,
0 (0,1) 1
Fig. 5(b) and Fig. 5(c), actions a and a (with higher s is the initial state and F is a finite set of states that cannot
(0,4) (0,6) 0
curiosity) are selected. Note that, after s is reached, some transit to other states.
6
previously invalid actions (e.g., a ) may become valid due During testing, once a new transition (s(cid:48),a,s) is explored,
(1,7)
to the specific business logic. For example, an item in the theDFAwillbeupdated,i.e.,δ :=δ (cid:83) {(s(cid:48),a,s)}(Line21of
table can only be deleted after being added. In this case, as Algorithm1).Algorithm3presentsthebasicideaofcuriosity-
curiosity(s ,a ,s ) decreases, a and a regains driventraceselection.FromtheDFA,wefirstselectthetransi-
0 (0,6) 6 (0,1) (0,4)
the same chance to be selected, which is critical for exploring tionwiththehighestcuriosity(s ,a ,s ).Then,weadopt
m m m+1
the newly activated states (i.e., s ), opening a new untouched the Dijkstra’s algorithm [47] to identify the shortest trace tr
7
area to be explored. that can reach the target (s ,a ,s ). With this trace, RL
m m m+1

## Page 7

could directly restore to the target transition. Intuitively, some 2) Web application failures: In subsequent experiments,
transitions could be very deep and thus difficult to reach by we collect the system-level failures (defined in Section II-B)
RL.Forthesetransitions,WebExplor leveragesDFAtofurther reportedinthebrowser’sconsoletostudythefailuredetection
enhance the exploration efficiency and testing effectiveness. capability of related approaches. Note that user-level failures
Theoretically, the non-deterministic finite automaton can may or may not cause system-level failures, which depends
represent the dynamicity of the stochastic environment more on the system’s robustness. For example, if user-level failures
accurately.However,weuseDFAduetothefollowingreasons: are well handled by the web-system (e.g., strict input-field
1) the automaton is used to guide the selection of one viable checking), no system-level failures will occur. Otherwise,
path for exploration. Due to dynamic factors (e.g., network), failures will be triggered and captured by WebExplor. For
one path in DFA may be infeasible, but it doesn’t affect identifyingtheroot-causeoffailures(e.g.,byusersorsystem),
the soundness of WebExplor because the dynamic execution we adopt manual analysis. It is worth emphasizing that all
will ignore such infeasible paths; 2) The construction of non- discovered failures are manually vetted to ensure that the
deterministic finite automaton could be more expensive, espe- thrownexceptionsanderrorsareactuallyfailures(i.e.,nofalse
cially on estimating the transition probabilities. Considering alarms).
the trade-off between efficiency and granularity of automaton 3) Baselines Approaches: To evaluate the effectiveness of
construction, DFA is a good-enough solution for WebExplor. WebExplor,weselectthreestate-of-the-artapproachesasbase-
linesforacomparativestudy.Thesebaselinesincludeboththe
IV. EMPIRICALEVALUATION model-based to model-free algorithms. Besides, one random
strategy that adapts the idea of Monkey [13] is adopted as a
We have implemented WebExplor based on Python 3.7.6
baseline. Moreover, to evaluate the advantage of leveraging
and PyTorch 1.5.0 [48] with more than 5,000 lines of code1.
DFA, a variant of WebExplor is also implemented for the
TodemonstratetheeffectivenessandefficiencyofWebExplor,
ablation evaluation.
weconductanempiricalevaluationinvestigatingthefollowing
four research questions. • DIG [15] is a navigation model-based approach, leveraging
a diversity-based test case generator for web testing.
• RQ1 (Code Coverage): How is the exploration capability • SUBWEB [5] is a navigation model-based approach, con-
of WebExplor in terms of code coverage?
sidering the uncovered branches and using a search-based
• RQ2 (Failure Detection): How effective is WebExplor for strategy to achieve web testing.
detecting failures of web applications?
• Crawljax[14]isanavigationmodel-freeapproach,discover-
• RQ3 (DFA Guidance): How effective is DFA in guiding ingandclusteringpagesontheflyandadoptingacrawling-
the exploration during testing?
based random test case generator for web testing.
• RQ4 (Scalability): How effective is WebExplor in testing • Random [13] is a model-free approach, randomly selecting
real-world web applications?
one of the available actions to explore web states.
• WebExplor (no DFA) is a variant of WebExplor without the
A. Experiment Setup
DFA guidance.
1) Benchmarks: Our large-scale evaluation uses three 4) Configurations: For all experiments, we give each tool
benchmarks, including a research benchmark from the prior the same time budget (i.e., 30 minutes). To counteract the
work [15] to compare WebExplor with the state-of-the-art randomness from a statistical perspective, we repeat each
techniques, a benchmark of top 50 real-world web applica- experiment 15 times and calculate the average results. For the
tions [32] to evaluate the scalability of WebExplor, and an similarity in the pre-processing, we set 0.8 as the threshold.
industrial web application to conduct a detailed case study. DFA provides high-level guidance for WebExplor if no new
• Research benchmark: We adopt a benchmark containing states are discovered in 2 minutes. For the discount factor
six popular GitHub projects (each has more than 50 stars) in RL, we set λ = 0.95 in all experiments. We conduct an
fromthepriorwork[15].Theseprojectsusesixmostpopu- comprehensive evaluation in spending more than 300 CPU
lar JavaScript frameworks: dimeshift (Backbone.js), pagekit hours, i.e., 6 projects * 7 settings (for 5 tools) * 0.5 (hour
(Vue.js), Splittypie (Ember.js), phoenix-trello (Phoenix/Re- timebudgetforsingleround)*15repetitionsintotal.Besides,
act), Retroboard (React), and PetClinic (AngularJS). during testing, actions that lead to external links (via domain
• Real-world web applications: According to the rank- checking) will be recorded during testing, marked as invalid
ing [32], we select the top 50 web applications in the actions, and not executed in the subsequent testing.
world for evaluation. To investigate the scalability, we
B. Code Coverage (RQ1)
directly leverage WebExplor for an end-to-end testing of
To conduct a comprehensive comparison, for DIG and
these applications without fine-tuning.
SUBWEB, we use the naviation models, which are based on
• Industrial web application: A complex Software as a
automatically and manually generated page objects (denoted
Service(SaaS)systemisadoptedforthefurthercasestudies.
by APO and MPO), respectively. To counteract implementa-
We omit the system name for anonymous review reasons.
tionbias,boththeAPOandMPOaredirectlyadoptedfromthe
1Moredetailscanbefoundinourwebsite[49]. priorwork[15].Comparisonsintermsofthebranchcoverage

## Page 8

ofJavaScriptcodeareconductedonsixwebapplications.The testing process, here we only count the unique failures for
averaged results of 15 runs are summarized in Table I, where all methods. Overall, we have the following findings.
bold numbers indicate the best result. Overall, we have the First, compared with other baselines, random approach
following findings. achievesrelativelypoorperformance,whichisconsistentwith
The model-based methods DIG and SUBWEB can achieve the intuition that simple random exploration is ineffective for
an overall better branch coverage than model-free meth- large web applications. Model-based approaches can discover
ods Crawljax and Random in most cases. This is because morefailuresthantherandomapproachbutexhibitinstability.
navigation models can provide more information (e.g., web Amongallbaselines,WebExplordiscoversthemostnumber
structure),whichisbeneficialforeffectivetesting.However,a of failures (bold numbers in Table I), significantly exceeding
counterfactual finding is that model-free WebExplor achieves othermethods(i.e.,calculatedbyMann-WhitneyUtestat0.05
competitive performance in terms of code coverage, signif- confidencelevel).Thisrevealsnotonlythecompetitiveperfor-
icantly outperforming (i.e., calculated by Mann-Whitney U mance in failure detection, but also generality of WebExplor.
test [50] at 0.05 confidence level) model-based methods in Another counterintuitive finding is that, in Splittypie and
4/6 web applications (bold numbers in Table I). It not only Retroboardsubjects,althoughWebExplor achieveslowercode
demonstratestheexplorationcapabilityofWebExplor interms coveragethanDIG(inTableI),itstilldetectsmorefailures(in
of the code coverage, but also the robustness, which could be Table I). We analyze the test cases generated by WebExplor
obtained by the model-free testing fashion. and DIG, compare the logs (see detailed logs in [49]) and
Besides, we perform an in-depth analysis on the test cases find that WebExplor discovers more server request errors
generated by WebExplor to figure out why WebExplor, as (e.g., error code 400 and 500) via generating test cases with
a model-free algorithm, can achieve better performance than illegaloperationsequences.Intuitively,thecoderelatedtoeach
othermodel-freealgorithms(i.e.,CrawljaxandRandom).Take operation can be easily covered by independent execution.
Petclinic for an example (shown in Fig. 3), we find that However, some failures are only triggered by illegal operation
WebExplor can generate the correct operation sequence (i.e., orders,indicatingthatitseemsineffectivetodetectfailuresby
fillingformvaluesbeforeaddinganowner)toachieveeffective simply improving code coverage. Moreover, DIG combines a
testing. Normally, generating such logically related sequence sequenceofactionswithaspecificorderasamacrooperation
actionsishardforrandom-basedmodel-freealgorithms.How- in both APO and MPO, ignoring the fact that different orders
ever, by leveraging the curiosity-driven RL, WebExplor can or executing only part of the sequence may result in potential
capture such relations and encode this “knowledge” in the failures. This explains why WebExplor performs better in
policytocreateeffectivetestcaseswithoutnavigationmodels. generating effective test cases.
Furthermore, compared to model-based algorithms (i.e.,
Answer to RQ2: Compared to other baselines, WebExplor
DIGandSUBWEB),wefoundthatWebExplorperformsmuch
achieves the best performance in failure detection, while
better in four subjects and similarly for the rest. We investi-
requiring no human knowledge or fine-tuned navigation
gate the reason and find that some pages in Splittypie and
models, revealing its potentials across different subjects.
Retroboard need complex inputs that are difficult to generate
randomly. For instance, the “transaction” page in Splittypie
D. DFA Guidance (RQ3)
can only be discovered after typing in a time value with a
non-standard W3Cformat(e.g.,mmdd).However,WebExplor This section investigates how DFA contributes to boosting
follows W3C standards [39] and cannot generate such inputs the testing efficiency through high-level guidance. Compar-
without human knowledge. Meantime, we analyze APO and isons between WebExplor and WebExplor (no DFA) are con-
MPO in DIG and SUBWEB, and find that both kinds of ducted to evaluate the failure detection rate and efficiency.
navigationmodelshavebeenmanuallyfine-tunedwithhuman- Fig7illustratestheresults,wherethex-axisisthetestingtime
knowledge, which enables non-standard input generation for and y-axis (#Failures and #Coverage) are the average number
higher coverage. Detailed results and analysis can be found ofdiscoveredfailuresandcodecoveragerate,respectively.To
in [49]. In rest four subjects, such non-standard inputs barely avoid statistical bias, the results are averaged using 15 runs,
exist, where WebExplor achieves much better results. and the bold lines and shadow areas represent the mean and
standard deviation.
Answer to RQ1: In contrast to model-based approaches,
First, in Fig. 7 (top), we observe that WebExplor can
WebExplor achieves better code coverage and robustness in
not only discover more failures than the one without DFA,
most cases with no navigation models or prior knowledge.
but also a higher failure detection efficiency (blue line rises
faster). Meanwhile, DFA achieves an early performance jump
C. Failure Detection (RQ2)
regarding the number of discovered failures, especially in the
We continue to analyze the ability of each baseline in dis- dimeshift, pagekit and petclinic subjects. All the advantages
coveringfailures(definedinSectionIV-A2).TableIshowsthe benefit from a better exploration guided by DFA. Take the
statistical results of the average number of failures discovered petclinic subject for example, many failures discovered by
during the allocated testing time (see Section IV-A4). As one WebExplor have long execution traces, containing many ac-
failure can be discovered multiple times during the entire tions that need to be executed in a specific order. Consider

## Page 9

TABLEI
COMPARISONSOFRELATEDBASELINESREGARDINGTHEAVERAGEDBRANCHCOVERAGEANDFAILUREDETECTIONWITHTHECORRESPONDING
STANDARDDEVIATION.(VALUESINBOLDINDICATETHEBESTAVERAGERESULTSUSING15RUNS.)
AverageBranchCoverage(%) AverageUniqueFailures(#)
Subjects WebExplor Crawljax Random DIG SUBWEB WebExplor Crawljax Random DIG SUBWEB
Navigationmodel-free APO MPO APO MPO Navigationmodel-free APO MPO APO MPO
Dimeshift 51.0(2.7) 11.8(0.0) 24.1(12.8) 38.5(1.6) 40.1(1.6) 36.7(2.3) 38.9(1.8) 9.0(1.7) 1.0(0.0) 1.4(0.5) 2.6(0.8) 2.9(0.5) 2.4(0.9) 2.9(0.5)
Pagekit 36.0(1.3) 0.5(0.0) 0.5(0.0) 24.3(2.6) 31.7(4.9) 24.7(2.8) 27.6(3.8) 4.2(0.9) 0.0(0.0) 0.0(0.0) 1.0(0.0) 2.9(0.4) 1.0(0.0) 0.7(1.0)
Splittypie 43.4(0.3) 37.7(3.9) 18.9(1.1) 46.9(1.8) 45.3(2.5) 44.1(3.5) 44.7(2.0) 8.0(1.4) 5.6(0.5) 3.0(0.0) 4.0(0.0) 4.0(0.0) 4.0(0.0) 6.0(0.0)
Phoenix 81.7(1.3) 30.2(9.2) 42.1(0.0) 60.1(5.7) 65.1(9.6) 61.3(2.3) 63.1(8.7) 5.3(0.5) 0.0(0.0) 1.2(0.0) 2.0(0.0) 2.0(0.0) 2.0(0.0) 2.1(0.5)
Retroboard 61.4(0.3) 22.2(0.0) 56.1(0.0) 68.7(2.1) 70.9(4.3) 68.1(2.7) 71.9(3.8) 1.0(0.0) 0.0(0.0) 1.0(0.0) 1.0(0.0) 1.0(0.0) 1.0(0.0) 1.0(0.0)
Petclinic 85.0(0.0) 18.0(2.5) 35.0(26.3) 80.5(7.3) 49.5(7.9) 83.0(2.9) 49.5(7.9) 11.7(1.0) 0.7(0.0) 2.0(0.0) 1.5(0.0) 3.0(0.7) 1.5(2.1) 3.3(0.7)
Average 59.8 20.1 29.45 53.2 50.4 53.0 49.3 6.5 1.2 1.4 2.0 2.6 2.0 2.7
Fig.7. EvaluationofDFAregardingaveragednumberofdiscoveredfailures(top),codecoverage(bottom)andtestingefficiency(15runs).Theresultsare
averagedusing15runs,whilethesolidlineandshadedrepresentthemeanvalueandstandarddeviation,respectively.
this page transition trace as an example: homepage → owner- JavaScriptfailures,147serverfailures(i.e.,statuscode≥500)
list → owner-info → pet-list → pet-info → visit-info page. and 1,430 other failures (more details in [49]). Moreover, we
Many failures can only be discovered when entering the visit- analyzetheURLsofthedetectedfailuresandfindthat83.71%
info page and submit a form with invalid values. WebExplor failurescomefromtheoriginalwebapplications,whiletherest
can efficiently achieve this transition via DFA guidance and are from third-party libraries. This indicates that most failures
start subsequent testing. Otherwise, any interruption in the indeed exist in the original web applications, resulting in an
process will result in visiting another page, degrading the urgent need of end-to-end testing such as WebExplor.
testing efficiency (e.g., Fig. 5). Therefore, such high-level On the other hand, we find that the failures can be caused
guidance effectively leads to promising testing directions, by by either the client or server sides, including static resources
which WebExplor achieves efficient and effective web testing. loading errors, JavaScript errors due to uncommon opera-
Another finding is that DFA can achieve a more stable per- tion sequences, and crossing site errors due to accessing
formanceintermsofbothfailurediscoveryandcodecoverage. different servers (refer to [49] for details), which demon-
As shown in Fig. 7, the standard deviation (shaded area) of strates the effectiveness of WebExplor in detecting failures in
using DFA is smaller than not using DFA. The variation is real-world web applications. Moreover, WebExplor leverages
particularlyobviousinpagekit,phoenixandpetclinicsubjects. no manually-tuned parameters, demonstrating high scalability
among various modern web applications. More analysis and
Answer to RQ3:DFAcomplementscuriosity-drivenRLby
failure screenshots including web pages and console outputs
providing high-level guidance for effective exploration and
can be found on our website [49].
high efficiency. WebExplor achieves a better performance in
Furthermore, a commercial SaaS platform (over a million
terms of failure detection rate, code coverage and stability.
linesofcode)isemployedasadetailedcasestudy.WebExplor
successfully finds 12 unspotted failures, which are confirmed
E. Evaluation on Real-World Web Applications (RQ4)
and fixed by developers. We analyze some specific cases of
RQ4 aims to evaluate the effectiveness of WebExplor on discovered failures as follows.
real-world web applications. According to the Alexa rank Asynchronousrendering:Thefollowingcodesegmentshows
list [32], top 50 most popular web applications are chosen a discovered failure, where gray lines are newly added fix-
for evaluation. In total, WebExplor discovered 3,466 failures. ing solutions. The elements (i.e., “kg-container”) is asyn-
Aftermanualinspection,wefindthesefailuresconsistof1,889 chronously rendered, which will be a null pointer before

## Page 10

finishingrendering.Therefore,afailurewillbetriggeredonce foreachtestingconfigurationandaveragetheresults.Besides,
accessing such a null pointer (Line 3). This finding also the oracle we proposed may not be complete, and thus Web-
suggests that developers should pay attention when using Explor maymisssomeotherunknownfailureslikeUIbugsor
asynchronous techniques in web applications. other types of bugs. As WebExplor performs black-box web
testing, the server-side codes are assumed to be unavailable.
1 // Disable default right click behavior
Therefore, only the coverage of the client-side codes (e.g.,
2 + if (!!document.getElementById("kg-container"))
// throws null point exception without checking JavaScript) are reported, and the evaluation of WebExplor in
3 document.getElementById("kg-container") terms of the code coverage may be incomprehensive. The se-
4 .oncontextmenu = function(e) {
5 e.preventDefault(); lectionoftheRLalgorithmusedfortrainingpoliciescouldbe
6 }; biased.WemitigatethisproblembyselectingthestandardRL
algorithm [45] for web testing. Furthermore, hyperparameters
1 // Check invalid email maybeapotentialthreat.Thechoiceofsuchhyperparameters
2 + if (match_email("kg-container")) is dependent on the domain knowledge, and may be biased.
register_email(email);
Besides,theselectionofthewebapplicationscouldbebiased.
Securitydefect:Thefollowingexampleshowsamoduleload- To address this, a research benchmark and various real-world
ing failure that results in a security defect. Specifically, when web applications, including active commercial websites, are
WebExplor operates on the “online-editor” in the browser, the adopted for evaluation.
servertriestoloadanon-existentmodule“brace/mode/c cpp”
by traversing all folders (Line 3). V. RELATEDWORK
Consequently, as shown in Fig. 8, the server exposes all Many techniques have been proposed to automate web
folders and folder structure to the client, which could be testing. In the following, we briefly discuss the most relevant
exploited by malicious attackers, and results in security prob- solutions and their limitations, which motivates the need for a
lems. The “online-editor” is difficult to reach but WebExplor novel and efficient web testing technique.
discovered it by adopting an effective exploration. Model-Based Testing. Model-based technique is a major
paradigm for achieving automatic web testing [15, 5, 38, 51].
This kind of techniques build models to describe the web
applications’ behaviors in advance, and then derive test cases
from the models to find bugs. For instance, approaches like
DIG [15], SubWeb [5], and ATUSA [38] extract paths from
the navigation model, where genetic algorithm is adopted for
performing path selection and input generation. Further, an
incremental two-steps algorithm InwertGen [51] is proposed,
where the generation of navigation model and test cases
are intertwined. Overall, model-based techniques exhibit the
advantageoffasttestcasesgenerationsincenowebinteraction
is required. However, the navigation model may cover only
Fig.8. Theexposureofsensitiveserverinformation.
some behaviors of the web applications while others cannot
Beyond these, WebExplor discovered some other failures. be tested. Besides, expert domain knowledge are required in
For instance, a password-reset API throws an internal ex- building high quality models. Such limitations motivate the
ception (400 bad request) once receiving an invalid email need for a model-free testing technique. WebExplor, to the
input. Besides, when WebExplor executes the tab-switching best of our knowledge, is the first RL-based technique that
behaviors, an event handler error is thrown, which results in performs an end-to-end automated web testing for real-world
incorrect data rendering. Moreover, searching API throws an applications andachieves competitiveperformance comparing
error(500internalservererror)iftherequestpayloadcontains to the state-of-the-art techniques.
noproductororganizationID,whichcannotbehandled.More Test Case Generation. Test case generation consists of build-
analysis and details can be found in our website [49]. ing test path and corresponding input values [15]. Given a
navigation model, test paths can be generated by search-
Answer to RQ4: WebExplor tests modern web applications
based approaches [5, 52], and inputs can be generated us-
in an end-to-end fashion with no additional manual efforts
ing random or evolutionary algorithms [15, 53]. In many
(e.g., building a navigation model). Besides, 3,000+ failures
cases, search-based techniques need to explicitly address path
detected from the real-world applications further demon-
feasibility, resulting in tremendous executions of test case
strate the effectiveness of WebExplor in failure detection.
candidates. Search-based algorithms also need to evaluate
each test case’s fitness value, which is costly since plenty of
F. Threats To Validity
candidates need to be generated and executed in the browser
Randomness can be a major threat during testing and the before converging [54]. Existing techniques for automated
web interaction. We reduce this threat by repeating 15 times test case generation either ignore path feasibility or require

## Page 11

a large number of executions. As for input values, random Commission (No. 569 17ZXRGGX00150), Tianjin Natural
strategy [38, 53] can generate feasible inputs in most cases. Science Fund (No. 19JCYBJC16300), Research on Data Plat-
Furthermore,symbolicexecutiontechniques(e.g.,Apollo[55], form Technology Based on Automotive Electronic Identifica-
Jalangi [56] and SymJS [57]) use systematic strategies to tion System, Singapore National Research Foundation, under
generatespecificinputstocoverhard-to-reachcodes.However, itsNationalCybersecurityR&DProgram(No.NRF2018NCR-
generating such specific inputs is not the primary concern NCR005-0001), Singapore National Research Foundation un-
of WebExplor, and all advanced input generation techniques der NCR (No. NRF2018NCR-NSOE003-0001), NRF Investi-
can be incorporated in the WebExplor to further enhance the gatorship (No. NRFI06-2020-0022), JSPS KAKENHI (Grant
performance.Recently,therearealsosomeresearchontesting No. 20H04168, 19K24348, 19H04086), JST-Mirai Program
deep learning models [49, 58, 59, 60], which could be used (Grant No. JPMJMI18BB), Japan, and Guangdong Provincial
to test reinforcement learning models. Key Laboratory (Grant No. 2020B121201001), China.
Reinforcement Learning Based Testing. In recent years, RL
has also been applied to help software testing. For instance,
REFERENCES
Wuji [23] leverages RL and multi-objective optimization for [1] J. Huggins and S. Contributors, “Selenium-web browser
game testing, which is rather different from web applications. automation,” http://www.seleniumhq.org, 2018.
Bo¨ttinger et al. [61] introduce the first RL based fuzzer [2] M. Biagiola, A. Stocco, A. Mesbah, F. Ricca, and
to learn high reward seed mutations for testing traditional P.Tonella,“Webtestdependencydetection,”inProceed-
software. Retecs [62] uses RL to facilitate test prioritization ings of the 2019 27th ACM Joint Meeting on European
andselectioninregressiontesting.Besides,RLisalsoadopted SoftwareEngineeringConferenceandSymposiumonthe
in mobile testing techniques [63, 25, 26, 27], ranging from Foundations of Software Engineering, 2019, pp. 154–
QBE [63] for crash detection to GUI testing [26, 27]. The 164.
most recent Q-testing [25] achieves the best mobile testing [3] A. Stocco, R. Yandrapally, and A. Mesbah, “Visual web
performance by leveraging the curiosity reward, which is test repair,” in Proceedings of the 2018 26th ACM Joint
similartoWebExplor.BothWebExplor andQ-testingarebuilt Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference
on the Q-learning, however, due to different characteristics and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engi-
between Android and Web applications, the challenges ad- neering, 2018, pp. 503–514.
dressed by the two works are different. In WebExplor, we [4] M. Leotta, A. Stocco, F. Ricca, and P. Tonella, “Pesto:
carefully design state representation and suitable rewards for Automated migration of dom-based web tests towards
web testing, which are different from Q-testing. Furthermore, the visual approach,” Software Testing, Verification And
we also found that it is not effective when only using Q- Reliability, vol. 28, no. 4, p. e1665, 2018.
learning. Thus DFA-augmented exploration is proposed in [5] M.Biagiola,F.Ricca,andP.Tonella,“Searchbasedpath
WebExplor, which is also a key difference compared with and input data generation for web application testing,”
Q-testing. The existing studies most related to both the RL in International Symposium on Search Based Software
and web domains are Artemis [64] and DOM-Q-NET [65] Engineering. Springer, 2017, pp. 18–32.
that utilize RL to perform explicitly defined web-based tasks. [6] M.Leotta,A.Stocco,F.Ricca,andP.Tonella,“Robula+:
Differentfromcompletingexplicittasks,WebExplor targetsat An algorithm for generating robust xpath locators for
web testing via exploring diverse behaviors using curiosity- web testing,” Journal of Software: Evolution and Pro-
driven RL, which has not been tackled before. cess, vol. 28, no. 3, pp. 177–204, 2016.
[7] M.Hammoudi,G.Rothermel,andA.Stocco,“Waterfall:
VI. CONCLUSION
anincrementalapproachforrepairingrecord-replaytests
This paper proposes WebExplor, a new RL based approach of web applications,” in Proceedings of the 2016 24th
for automatic web testing. WebExplor leverages the curiosity- ACMSIGSOFTInternationalSymposiumonFoundations
drivenRLtoachieveefficientandadaptiveexploration.Mean- of Software Engineering, 2016, pp. 751–762.
while, DFA is proposed to provide high-level guidance, so [8] M. Leotta, A. Stocco, F. Ricca, and P. Tonella, “Using
as to further boost the testing efficacy. Experiments show multi-locators to increase the robustness of web test
that WebExplor outperforms existing web testing techniques cases,” in 2015 IEEE 8th International Conference on
in both code coverage and failure detection. In the future, we Software Testing, Verification and Validation (ICST).
plan to extend WebExplor with hierarchical RL for a better IEEE, 2015, pp. 1–10.
exploration, and extract business scenarios from the DFA, [9] R. V. Binder, “Testing object-oriented software: a sur-
whereby fault localization can be achievable. vey,”SoftwareTesting,VerificationandReliability,vol.6,
no. 3-4, pp. 125–252, 1996.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
[10] M. Fewster and D. Graham, Software test automation.
The work is supported in part by the National Natural Sci- Addison-Wesley Reading, 1999.
enceFoundationofChina(GrantNo.U1836214),SpecialPro- [11] S. Thummalapenta, P. Devaki, S. Sinha, S. Chandra,
gram of Artificial Intelligence and Special Program of Artifi- S.Gnanasundaram,D.D.Nagaraj,S.Kumar,andS.Ku-
cialIntelligenceofTianjinMunicipalScienceandTechnology mar, “Efficient and change-resilient test automation: An

## Page 12

industrial case study,” in 2013 35th International Con- Y. Liu, “Generating behavior-diverse game ais with evo-
ference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 2013, lutionary multi-objective deep reinforcement learning,”
pp. 1002–1011. in Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth International Joint
[12] A. Stocco, M. Leotta, F. Ricca, and P. Tonella, Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), 2020, pp.
“APOGEN: automatic page object generator for web 3371–3377.
testing,” Software Quality Journal, vol. 25, no. 3, pp. [25] M. Pan, A. Huang, G. Wang, T. Zhang, and X. Li,
1007–1039, 2017. “Reinforcementlearningbasedcuriosity-driventestingof
[13] Google,“Monkey,”https://developer.android.com/,2018. android applications,” in Proceedings of the 29th ACM
[14] “Crawljax,” https://github.com/crawljax/crawljax, 2017. SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing
[15] M. Biagiola, A. Stocco, F. Ricca, and P. Tonella, and Analysis, 2020, pp. 153–164.
“Diversity-based web test generation,” in Proceedings [26] D. Adamo, M. K. Khan, S. Koppula, and R. C. Bryce,
of the 2019 27th ACM Joint Meeting on European “Reinforcement learning for android GUI testing,” in
SoftwareEngineeringConferenceandSymposiumonthe Proceedings of the 9th ACM SIGSOFT International
Foundations of Software Engineering, 2019, pp. 142– Workshop on Automating TEST Case Design, Selection,
153. and Evaluation, A-TEST@ESEC/SIGSOFT FSE 2018,
[16] A.Mesbah,A.VanDeursen,andS.Lenselink,“Crawling Lake Buena Vista, FL, USA, November 05, 2018, 2018,
ajax-basedwebapplicationsthroughdynamicanalysisof pp. 2–8.
user interface state changes,” ACM Transactions on the [27] T.A.T.VuongandS.Takada,“Areinforcementlearning
Web (TWEB), vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 1–30, 2012. based approach to automated testing of android applica-
[17] A. Marchetto, P. Tonella, and F. Ricca, “State-based tions,”inProceedingsofthe9thACMSIGSOFTInterna-
testing of ajax web applications,” in 2008 1st Interna- tional Workshop on Automating TEST Case Design, Se-
tional Conference on Software Testing, Verification, and lection, and Evaluation, A-TEST@ESEC/SIGSOFT FSE
Validation. IEEE, 2008, pp. 121–130. 2018, Lake Buena Vista, FL, USA, November 05, 2018,
[18] S. Athaiya and R. Komondoor, “Testing and analysis 2018, pp. 31–37.
of web applications using page models,” in Proceedings [28] Google, “UI automator,” https://developer.android.com/
of the 26th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on training/testing/uiautomator, 2019.
SoftwareTestingandAnalysis,SantaBarbara,CA,USA, [29] DeepMind, “Dota2,” https://openai.com/five/, 2019.
July 10 - 14, 2017, T. Bultan and K. Sen, Eds. ACM, [30] Y. Zheng, Z. Meng, J. Hao, and Z. Zhang, “Weighted
2017, pp. 181–191. double deep multiagent reinforcement learning in
[19] M. Schur, A. Roth, and A. Zeller, “Procrawl: mining stochastic cooperative environments,” in PRICAI 2018:
test models from multi-user web applications,” in Inter- Trends in Artificial Intelligence - 15th Pacific Rim In-
national Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, ternational Conference on Artificial Intelligence, China,
ISSTA ’14, San Jose, CA, USA - July 21 - 26, 2014, 2018, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol.
C. S. Pasareanu and D. Marinov, Eds. ACM, 2014, pp. 11013, 2018, pp. 421–429.
413–416. [31] Y. Zheng, J. Hao, Z. Zhang, Z. Meng, and X. Hao, “Ef-
[20] Y. Zheng, Z. Wang, X. Fan, X. Chen, and Z. Yang, ficientmultiagentpolicyoptimizationbasedonweighted
“Localizing multiple software faults based on evolution estimators in stochastic cooperative environments,” J.
algorithm,” J. Syst. Softw., vol. 139, pp. 107–123, 2018. Comput.Sci.Technol.,vol.35,no.2,pp.268–280,2020.
[21] V. Mnih, K. Kavukcuoglu, D. Silver, A. A. Rusu, J. Ve- [32] Aleax Inc., “Top web sites rank list,” https://www.alexa.
ness, M. G. Bellemare, A. Graves, M. Riedmiller, A. K. com/topsites, 2020.
Fidjeland, G. Ostrovski et al., “Human-level control [33] R. S. Sutton and A. G. Barto, Reinforcement learning:
through deep reinforcement learning,” Nature, vol. 518, An introduction. MIT press, 2018.
no. 7540, pp. 529–533, 2015. [34] W. W. W. Consortium, “Hypertext transfer protocol –
[22] Y. Zheng, Z. Meng, J. Hao, Z. Zhang, T. Yang, and http/1.1,” https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616s, 2012.
C. Fan, “A deep bayesian policy reuse approach against [35] Y. Bengio, A. Courville, and P. Vincent, “Representation
non-stationary agents,” in Advances in Neural Infor- learning: A review and new perspectives,” IEEE trans-
mation Processing Systems 31: Annual Conference on actions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence,
NeuralInformationProcessingSystems(NeurIPS),2018, vol. 35, no. 8, pp. 1798–1828, 2013.
pp. 962–972. [36] J. W. Ratcliff and D. E. Metzener, “Pattern-matching-
[23] Y.Zheng,X.Xie,T.Su,L.Ma,J.Hao,Z.Meng,Y.Liu, the gestalt approach,” Dr Dobbs Journal, vol. 13, no. 7,
R. Shen, Y. Chen, and C. Fan, “Wuji: Automatic online p. 46, 1988.
combat game testing using evolutionary deep reinforce- [37] Google, “Chrome devtools protocol viewer,” https://
ment learning,” in 2019 34th IEEE/ACM International chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/tot, 2020.
Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE), [38] A. Mesbah, A. Van Deursen, and D. Roest, “Invariant-
2019, pp. 772–784. based automatic testing of modern web applications,”
[24] R.Shen,Y.Zheng,J.Hao,Z.Meng,Y.Chen,C.Fan,and IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, vol. 38,

## Page 13

no. 1, pp. 35–53, 2011. symposium on Software testing and analysis, 2008, pp.
[39] Mozzila, “HTML,” https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/ 261–272.
docs/Web/HTML/Element/input, 2020. [56] K.Sen,S.Kalasapur,T.Brutch,andS.Gibbs,“Jalangi:a
[40] T. Yang, J. Hao, Z. Meng, Y. Zheng, C. Zhang, and selective record-replay and dynamic analysis framework
Z. Zheng, “Bayes-tomop: A fast detection and best for javascript,” in Proceedings of the 2013 9th Joint
response algorithm towards sophisticated opponents,” in Meeting on Foundations of Software Engineering, 2013,
Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on pp. 488–498.
Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems, AAMAS, [57] G. Li, E. Andreasen, and I. Ghosh, “Symjs: automatic
2019, pp. 2282–2284. symbolic testing of javascript web applications,” in Pro-
[41] Y. Zheng, J. Hao, Z. Zhang, Z. Meng, T. Yang, Y. Li, ceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGSOFT International Sym-
and C. Fan, “Efficient policy detecting and reusing for posium on Foundations of Software Engineering, 2014,
non-stationarity in markov games,” Auton. Agents Multi pp. 449–459.
Agent Syst., vol. 35, no. 1, p. 2, 2021. [58] X. Xie, L. Ma, F. Juefei-Xu, M. Xue, H. Chen, Y. Liu,
[42] D. Pathak, P. Agrawal, A. A. Efros, and T. Darrell, J. Zhao, B. Li, J. Yin, and S. See, “Deephunter:
“Curiosity-driven exploration by self-supervised predic- A coverage-guided fuzz testing framework for deep
tion,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Com- neural networks,” in Proceedings of the 28th ACM
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, 2017, SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing
pp. 16–17. and Analysis, ser. ISSTA 2019. New York, NY,
[43] N. Savinov, A. Raichuk, D. Vincent, R. Marinier, USA: ACM, 2019, pp. 146–157. [Online]. Available:
M. Pollefeys, T. P. Lillicrap, and S. Gelly, “Episodic http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/3293882.3330579
Curiosity through Reachability.” ICLR, 2019. [59] X.Du,X.Xie,Y.Li,L.Ma,Y.Liu,andJ.Zhao,“Deep-
[44] M. Bellemare, S. Srinivasan, G. Ostrovski, T. Schaul, stellar:model-basedquantitativeanalysisofstatefuldeep
D. Saxton, and R. Munos, “Unifying count-based explo- learningsystems,”inProceedingsofthe201927thACM
ration and intrinsic motivation,” in Advances in neural Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Con-
information processing systems, 2016, pp. 1471–1479. ference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
[45] C. J. Watkins and P. Dayan, “Q-learning,” Machine Engineering, 2019, pp. 477–487.
learning, vol. 8, no. 3-4, pp. 279–292, 1992. [60] X. Xie, L. Ma, H. Wang, Y. Li, Y. Liu, and X. Li,
[46] E.Jang,S.Gu,andB.Poole,“Categoricalreparametriza- “Diffchaser: Detecting disagreements for deep neural
tion with gumble-softmax,” in International Conference networks,”inProceedingsofthe28thInternationalJoint
on Learning Representations, 2017. ConferenceonArtificialIntelligence. AAAIPress,2019,
[47] J. A. Bondy, U. S. R. Murty et al., Graph theory with pp. 5772–5778.
applications. Macmillan London, 1976, vol. 290. [61] K. Bo¨ttinger, P. Godefroid, and R. Singh, “Deep rein-
[48] A. Paszke, S. Gross, S. Chintala, G. Chanan, E. Yang, forcement fuzzing,” in 2018 IEEE Security and Privacy
Z. DeVito, Z. Lin, A. Desmaison, L. Antiga, and Workshops, SP Workshops 2018, San Francisco, CA,
A. Lerer, “Automatic differentiation in pytorch,” 2017. USA, May 24, 2018, 2018, pp. 116–122.
[49] WebExplor, “WebExplor,” https://sites.google.com/view/ [62] H.Spieker,A.Gotlieb,D.Marijan,andM.Mossige,“Re-
webexplor, 2020. inforcementlearningforautomatictestcaseprioritization
[50] O.Korosteleva,Nonparametricmethodsinstatisticswith and selection in continuous integration,” in Proceedings
SAS applications. CRC Press, 2013. of the 26th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on
[51] B. Yu, L. Ma, and C. Zhang, “Incremental web appli- SoftwareTestingandAnalysis,SantaBarbara,CA,USA,
cation testing using page object,” in 2015 Third IEEE July 10 - 14, 2017, 2017, pp. 12–22.
Workshop on Hot Topics in Web Systems and Technolo- [63] Y. Ko¨roglu, A. Sen, O. Muslu, Y. Mete, C. Ulker,
gies (HotWeb). IEEE, 2015, pp. 1–6. T. Tanriverdi, and Y. Donmez, “QBE: qlearning-based
[52] M.E.Dincturk,G.-V.Jourdan,G.V.Bochmann,andI.V. exploration of android applications,” in 11th IEEE In-
Onut,“Amodel-basedapproachforcrawlingrichinternet ternational Conference on Software Testing, Verification
applications,” ACM Transactions on the Web (TWEB), andValidation,ICST2018,Va¨stera˚s,Sweden,April9-13,
vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 1–39, 2014. 2018, 2018, pp. 105–115.
[53] S. Artzi, J. Dolby, S. H. Jensen, A. Moller, and F. Tip, [64] E. Z. Liu, K. Guu, P. Pasupat, T. Shi, and P. Liang, “Re-
“A framework for automated testing of javascript web inforcement learning on web interfaces using workflow-
applications,” in Proceedings of the 33rd International guided exploration,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.08802,
ConferenceonSoftwareEngineering,2011,pp.571–580. 2018.
[54] S. Luke, Essentials of metaheuristics. Lulu Raleigh, [65] S. Jia, J. Kiros, and J. Ba, “Dom-q-net: Grounded rl on
2013, vol. 2. structured language,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.07257,
[55] S. Artzi, A. Kiezun, J. Dolby, F. Tip, D. Dig, A. Parad- 2019.
kar, and M. D. Ernst, “Finding bugs in dynamic web
applications,” in Proceedings of the 2008 international

