# 2210.06307V1

**Source:** 2210.06307v1.pdf  
**Converted:** 2026-01-26 09:22:16

---

## Page 1

1
DinoDroid: Testing Android Apps Using Deep
Q-Networks
Yu Zhao, Member, IEEE, Brent Harrison, Member, IEEE, and Tingting Yu, Member, IEEE
Abstract—Thelargedemandofmobiledevicescreatessignificantconcernsaboutthequalityofmobileapplications(apps).
Developersneedtoguaranteethequalityofmobileappsbeforeitisreleasedtothemarket.Therehavebeenmanyapproachesusing
differentstrategiestotesttheGUIofmobileapps.However,theystillneedimprovementduetotheirlimitedeffectiveness.Inthispaper,
weproposeDinoDroid,anapproachbasedondeepQ-networkstoautomatetestingofAndroidapps.DinoDroidlearnsabehavior
modelfromasetofexistingappsandthelearnedmodelcanbeusedtoexploreandgeneratetestsfornewapps.DinoDroidisableto
capturethefine-graineddetailsofGUIevents(e.g.,thecontentofGUIwidgets)andusethemasfeaturesthatarefedintodeepneural
network,whichactsastheagenttoguideappexploration.DinoDroidautomaticallyadaptsthelearnedmodelduringtheexploration
withouttheneedofanymodelingstrategiesorpre-definedrules.Weconductexperimentson64open-sourceAndroidapps.The
resultsshowedthatDinoDroidoutperformsexistingAndroidtestingtoolsintermsofcodecoverageandbugdetection.
IndexTerms—MobileTesting,DeepQ-Networks,ReinforcementLearning.
(cid:70)
1 INTRODUCTION and model-based testing [5], [6], [7]. Random testing (e.g.,
Mobile applications (apps) have become extremely popu- Monkey [3]) is popular in testing mobile apps because of
lar with about three million apps in Google Play’s app its simplicity and availability. It generates tests by sending
store [1]. The increase in app complexity has created sig- thousands of GUI events per second to the app. While
nificant concerns about the quality of apps. Also, because random testing can sometimes be effective, it is difficult
of the rapid releasing cycle of apps and limited human to explore hard-to-reach events to drive the app to new
resources,itisdifficultfordeveloperstomanuallyconstruct pages because of the natural of randomness. Model-based
testcases.Therefore,differentautomatedmobileapptesting testing [7], [8] can improve code coverage by employing
techniqueshavebeendevelopedandapplied [2]. pre-definedstrategiesorrulestoguidetheappexploration.
Test cases for mobile apps are often represented by For example, A3E [7] employs depth-first search (DFS) to
sequencesofGUIevents1tomimictheinteractionsbetween explore the model of an app under test (AUT) based on
users and apps. The goal of an automated test generator event-flow across app pages. Stoat [8] utilizes a stochastic
is generating such event sequences to achieve high code FiniteStateMachinemodeltodescribethebehaviorofAUT
coverageand/ordetectingbugs.Asuccessfultestgenerator andthenutilizesMarkovChainMonteCarlosampling[9]to
isabletoexercisethecorrectGUIwidgetonthecurrentapp guidethetesting.However,model-basedtestingoftenrelies
page, so that when exercising that widget, it can bring the on human-designed models and it is almost impossible to
apptoanewpage,leadingtotheexplorationofnewevents. precisely model an app’s behavior. Also, many techniques
However, existing mobile app testing tools often explore a applypre-definedrulestothemodelforimprovingtesting.
limited set of events because they have limited capability For example, Stoat [8] designed rules to assign each event
of understanding which GUI events would expand the anexecutionweightinordertospeedupexploration.How-
explorationlikehumansdo.Thiscanleadtoautomatedtest ever,thesepre-definedrulesareoftenderivedfromlimited
generatorsperformingunnecessaryactionsthatareunlikely observationsandmaynotgeneralizetoawidecategoriesof
toleadtonewcoverageordetectnewbugs. apps.
Many automated GUI testing approaches for mobile Tosummarize,theinherentlimitationoftheabovetech-
apps have been proposed, such as random testing [3], [4] niques is that they do not automatically understand GUI
layoutandthecontentoftheGUIelements,soitisdifficult
• Yu Zhao was with the Department of Computer Science and Computer forthemtoexercisethemosteffectiveeventsthatwillbring
ScienceandCybersecurity,UniversityofCentralMissouri,Warrensburg, the app into new states. Recently, machine learning tech-
MO,64093. niqueshavebeenproposedtoperformGUItestinginmobile
E-mail:yzhao@ucmo.edu
apps[10],[11],[12],[13].Forexample,Humanoid[12]uses
• BrentHarrisonwaswiththeDepartmentofComputerScience,University
ofKentucky,Lexington,KY,40506. deep learning to learn from human-generated interaction
E-mail:harrison@cs.uky.edu. traces and uses the learned model to guide test generation
• TingtingYu(correspondingauthor)waswiththeDepartmentofElectrical
asahumantester.However,thisapproachreliesonhuman-
EngineeringandComputerScience,UniversityofCincinnati,Cincinnati,
generated datasets (i.e., interaction traces) to train a model
OH,45221.
E-mail:yutt@ucmail.uc.edu and needs to combine the model with a set of pre-defined
rulestoguidetesting.
1.Inoursetting,aneventreferstoanexecutableGUIwidgetassoci-
atedwithanactiontype(e.g.,click,scroll,edit,swipe,etc). Reinforcementlearning(RL)canteachmachinetodecide
2202
tcO
21
]ES.sc[
1v70360.0122:viXra

## Page 2

2
which events to explore rather than relying on pre-defined
models or human-made strategies [14]. A Q-table is used
to record the reward of each event and the information
of previous testing knowledge. The reward function can
be defined based on the differences between pages [11] or
unique activities [10]. Reinforcement learners will learn to
maximize cumulative reward with the goal of achieving
highercodecoverageordetectingmorebugs.
While existing RL techniques have improved app test-
ing,theyfocusonabstractingtheinformationofapppages
andthenusetheabstractedfeaturestotrainbehaviormod-
elsfortesting[15],[16].Forexample,QBE[15],aQ-learning-
basedAndroidapptestingtool,abstractseachapppageinto
five categories based on the number of widgets (e.g., too-
few,few,moderate,many,too-many).Thefivecategoriesare
used to decide which events to explore. However, existing
RLtechniquesdonotunderstandthefine-grainedinforma-
tion of app pages like human testers normally do during
testing,suchastheexecutionfrequenciesandthecontentof
GUIwidgets.Thisisduetothelimitationofthebasictabular
settingofRL,whichrequiresafinitenumberofstates [17].
Therefore, the learned model may not capture the accurate
behaviorsoftheapp.Also,manyRL-basedtechniquesfocus Fig.1:AMotivatingExample
ontrainingeachappindependently[18],[16],[19],[20],[11]
In summary, our paper makes the following contribu-
andthuscannottransferthemodellearnedfromoneappto
tions:
another.
• An approach to testing Android apps based on deep
To address the aforementioned challenges, we propose
Q-learning.
a novel approach, DinoDroid, based on deep Q-networks
• A novel and the first deep Q-learning model that can
(DQN). DinoDroid learns a behavior model from a set of
processcomplexfeaturesatafine-grainedlevel.
existingappsandthelearnedmodelcanbeusedtoexplore
• Anempiricalstudyshowingthattheapproachiseffec-
and generate tests for new apps. During the training pro-
tive at achieving higher code coverage and better bug
cess, DinoDroid is able to understand and learn the details
detectionthanthestate-of-the-arttools.
of app events by leveraging a deep neural network (DNN)
• The implementation of the approach as a publicly
model [21]. More precisely, we have developed a set of
available tool, DinoDroid, along with all experiment
features taken as input by DinoDroid. The insight of these
data[22].
features represents what a human tester would do during
the exploration. For example, a human tester may decide
whichwidgettoexecutebasedonitscontentorhowmany 2 MOTIVATION AND BACKGROUND
times it was executed in the past. DinoDroid does not use
In this section, we first describe a motivating example
any pre-defined rules or thresholds to tune the parameters
of DinoDroid, followed by the background of deep Q-
of these features but let the DQN agent learn a behavior
networks(DQN),theproblemformulation,andthediscus-
modelbasedonthefeaturevalues(representedbyvectors)
sionofexistingwork.
automaticallyobtainedduringtrainingandtestingphases.
A key novel component of DinoDroid is a deep neural
2.1 AMotivatingExample.
network (DNN) model that can process multiple complex
features to predict Q value for each GUI event to guide Q- Fig.1showsanexampleoftheapplockpatterngenerator[23].
learning.WiththeDNN,DinoDroidcanbeeasilyextended This simple example demonstrates the ideas of DinoDroid,
to handle other types of features. Specifically, to test an but the real testing process is much more complex. After
app, DinoDroid first trains a set of existing apps to learn a clicking “Minimum length”, a message box pops up with
behavior model. The DNN serves as an agent to compute atextfieldandtwoclickablebuttons.Therefore,thecurrent
Q values used to determine the action (i.e., which event page of the app has a total of five events (i.e., “restart”,
to execute) at each iteration. In the meantime, DinoDroid “back”, “menu”, “OK”, and “Cancel”). The home button is
maintains a special event flow graph (EFG) to record and notconsideredbecauseitisnotspecifictotheapp.Whena
update the feature vectors, which are used for DNN to human tester encounters this page, he/she needs to decide
computeQvalues. which event to execute based on his/her prior experience.
Because the features are often shared among different Forexample,atesterislikelytoexecutetheeventsthathave
apps,DinoDroidisabletoapplythemodellearnedfromex- never been executed before. The tester may also need to
istingappstonewAUTs.Todothis,theagentcontinuously know the execution context of the current page (e.g., the
adapts the existing model to the new AUT by generating layoutofnextpage)todecidewhichwidgettoexercise.
new actions to reach the desired testing goal (e.g., code In this example, suppose none of the five events on
coverage). thecurrentpagehavebeenexecutedbefore.Intuitively,the

## Page 3

3
tester tends to select the “OK” event to execute because it
is more likely to bring the app to a new page. “Cancel”
is very possible to be the next event to consider because
“restart”, “back”, and “menu” are general events, so the
tester may have already had experience in executing them
whentestingotherapps.Insummary,todecidewhetheran
event has a higher priority to be executed, the tester may
need to consider its “features”, such as how many times
it was executed (i.e., execution frequency) and the content
of the widget. DinoDroid is able to automatically learn a Fig.2:DeepQ-Networks
behavior model from a set of existing apps based on these
featuresandthelearnedmodelcanbeusedtotestnewapps. received.ThentheagentwillupdatetheQvaluesusingthe
Bellmanequation[25]asfollows:
Tab.(a)-Tab.(c)inFig.1areusedtoillustrateDinoDroid.
In this example, DinoDroid dynamically records the feature Q(s ,a )←Q(s ,a )+α∗(r +γ∗maxQ(s ,a)−Q(s ,a ))
t t t t t t+1 t t
valuesforeachevent,includingtheexecutionfrequency,the a
number of events not executed on the next page (i.e., child In this equation, α is a learning rate between 0 and 1, γ
page), and the text on the event associated with the event. is a discount factor between 0 and 1, s t is the state at time
Next,DinoDroidemploysadeepneuralnetworktopredict t,anda t istheactiontakenattimet.Oncelearned,theseQ
the accumulative reward (i.e., Q value) of each event on values can be used to determine optimal behavior in each
thecurrentpagebasedontheaforementionedfeaturesand statebyselectingactiona t =argmax a Q(s t ,a).
selectstheeventthathasthelargestQvaluetoexecute.
Tab.(a) shows the feature values and Q values when 2.2.2 DeepQ-Networks
the page appears the first time. Since “OK” has the largest Deep Q-networks (DQN) are used to scale the classic Q-
Q value, it is selected for execution. DinoDroid continues learningtomorecomplexstateandactionspaces [26],[27].
exploring the events on the new page and updating the Q FortheclassicalQ-learning,Q(s
t
,a
t
)arestoredandvisited
value.Whenthesecondtimethispageappears,theQvalue in a Q table. It can only handle the fully observed, low-
oftheeventonexecuting“OK”buttondecreasesbecauseit dimensional state and action space. As shown in Fig. 2, in
is already executed. As a result, “Cancel” has the largest Q DQN,adeepneuralnetwork(DNN),specificallyinvolving
value and is selected for execution. In this case (Tab.(b)), convolutional neural networks (CNN) [28], is a multi-
the child page of “OK” contains 10 unexecuted events. layered neural network that for a given state s t outputs Q
However,supposethechildpagecontainszerounexecuted values for each action Q(s t ,a). Because a neural network
events (Tab.(c)), the Q value becomes much smaller. This can input and output high-dimensional state and action
is because DinoDroid tends to select the event whose child space, DQN has an ability to scale more complex state
pagecontainsmoreunexecutedevents. and action spaces. A neural network can also generalize Q
The underlying assumption of our approach is that the valuestounseenstates,whichisnotpossiblewhenusinga
application under test should follow the principle of least Q-table. It utilizes the follow loss function [27] to alter the
surprise (PLS). If an app does not meet the PLS, e.g., networktominimizethetemporaldifference(TD)[29]error
an “OK” textual widget is incorrectly associated with the asalossfunctionloss=r
t
+γ∗maxQ(s
t+1
,a)−Q(s
t
,a
t
).
a
functionallyof“Cancel”,itwouldmisleadDinoDroidwhen The γ is the discount factor which is between 0 and 1. In
finding the right events to execute. Specifically, DinoDroid otherword,withtheinputof(s
t
,a
t
),theneuralnetworkis
exploits the learned knowledge to execute correct events trainedtopredicttheQvalueas:
thatresultinhighercodecoverageortriggeringbugs.
Q(s t ,a t )=r t +γ∗maxQ(s t+1 ,a) (1)
a
So in a training sample, the input is (s t ,a t ) and output
2.2 Background is the corresponding Q value which can be computed by
2.2.1 Q-Learning
r
t
+γ∗m
a
axQ(s
t+1
,a).
Q-learning [24] is a model-free reinforcement learning
2.3 Terminologies
method which seeks to learn a behavior policy for any
finite Markov decision process (FMDP), Q-learning finds A GUI widget is a graphical element of an app, such as
an optimal policy, π, that maximizes expected cumulative a button, a text field, and a check box. An event is an
rewardoverasequenceofactionstaken.Q-learningisbased executable GUI widget with a particular event type (e.g.
ontrial-and-errorlearninginwhichanagentinteractswith click,long-click,swipe,edit),soawidgetcanbeassociated
its environment and assigns utility estimates known as Q withoneormoreevents.Inoursetting,astatesrepresents
valuestoeachstate. an app page (i.e., a set of widgets shown on the current
AsshowninFig.2theagentiterativelyinteractswiththe screen. If the set of widgets is different, we have another
outsideenvironment.Ateachiterationt,theagentselectsan page). We use s t to represent the current state and s t+1 to
actiona t ∈Abasedonthecurrentstates t ∈Sandexecutes represent the next state. A reward r is calculated based on
it on the outside environment. After exercising the action, the improvement of coverage. If code coverage increases, r
there is a new state s t+1 ∈ S, which can be observed by isassignedapositivenumber(r=5bydefault);otherwise,r
theagent.Inthemeantime,animmediaterewardr t ∈ Ris is assigned a negative number (r=-2 by default). An Agent

## Page 4

4
chooses which event to execute based on the accumulative
rewards (i.e., Q values) on the current observed state. The
chosen event is an action. For example, the agent performs
an action by choosing to “click a button A” on the current
page.APolicyisπ(a,s) = Pr(a
t
= a|s
t
= s),whichmaxi-
mizes the expected cumulative reward. Q-learning learns a
policytotelltheagentwhatactiontotake.
2.4 LimitationsofExistingQ-LearningTechniques
The techniques that are mostly related to DinoDroid are
Q-learning-based Android app testing [18], [19], [20], [11].
These techniques are all based on a Q-table, which have
severallimitations.First,Q-tableisnotcapableofhandling
high-dimensionalfeatures,suchastextandimage—adding
a new feature space for a state to the Q-table will lead to
its exponential growth. For example, a word embedding
feature, represented as an M-dimension vector with N Fig.3:ApproachOverview
possible values, would need O(mn) columns in a Q-table.
Second, most existing techniques use the resource ID of an Algorithm1DinoDroid’stesting
eventtorepresentthestateinaQ-table.However,different Require: AppundertestAUT,DQN’sModelMwithbeforeknowledge,
apps can have different ID assignments. Therefore, these executiontimeLIMIT
Ensure: updatednewM
techniques often focus on training and testing individual 1: ifMnotexistthen
apps and cannot train a model from multiple apps to test 2: M←buildNewModel()/*Firsttimetorun*/
new apps. The only work that uses Q-table to transfer 3: Memory←ø/*Memorystoresprevioussamples*/
4: G←ø/*Initializeeventflowgraph*/
knowledge among apps is QBE [10]. In order to limit the 5: p0←execute(AUT)/*Firstlanuchtogetthefirstpagep0*/
size of Q-table, QBE abstracts the state (i.e., an app page) 6: G←updateGraph(p0,G)/*updateGwithnewpage*/
into five categories in terms of the number of widgets on 7 8 : : s w 0 h ← ile f t e < at L u IM re IT Ge d n o erator(p0,G)/*Everyeventins0contains3features*/
the current page and actions into seven general categories 9: iftmod10equals0then
10: sendSystemEvent()/*sendrandomsystemevent*/
(i.e., menu, back, click, long-click, text, swipe, contextual).
11: at←getActionEvent(st,M)/*Eventselection*/
However, such abstractions may cause the learning to lose 12: pt+1,codeCoverage,crash←execute(AUT,at)
a lot of important information when making decisions on 13: rt←rewardInterpreter(codeCoverage,crash)
whicheventstoexecute. 1 1 4 5 : : G st+ ← 1 u ← pd f a e t a e t G u r r a e p G h e ( n p e t+ r 1 a , t G or ) ( / p * t u + p 1 d ,G at ) eGwithnewpage*/
Unlike traditional Q-learning, DinoDroid designs a 16: Q(st,at)=rt+γ∗maxQ(st+1,a)whereγ=0.6
a
novel deep neural network (DNN) model that can handle 17: Q←Q(st,at)
complex features with infinite feature space, such as word
18: batch←extractTrainBatch(Memory)∪(at,Q)
19: M←updateModel(batch,M)/*LearningforDQN*/
embedding with n-length vector and high-dimensional im- 20: Memory←Memory∪(at,Q)
age matrix. DinoDroid is able to process these features at
21: st+1←st
22: returnM
a fine-grained (ie., widget) level as opposed to abstrac-
tion [10]. DinoDroid’s features are specifically designed to and update the Q value for the event e t responding with
be general across apps, so the knowledge learned from a t.Thelearningprocesscontinuesiterativelyfromtheapps
existing apps can be transferred into new apps. For exam- provided as the training set. When testing a new app,
ple, the feature regarding “execution frequency” applies to DinoDroid uses the learned model as the initial model to
almosteveryappbecauseexploringneweventsarealways guidethetesting.Themodelisupdatedfollowingthesame
desirable. Also, when considering the “textual content” of processuntilatimelimitisreachedorthecoveragereaches
events, an “OK” button in every app may have similar aplateau.
meaningacrossdifferentapps.
3 DINODROID APPROACH 3.1 DinoDroid’sAlgorithm
Fig. 3 shows the overview of DinoDroid. An iteration t Alg.1showsthedetailsofDinoDroid.Whentestingortrain-
beginswithanapppage.Inthecurrentstates t,DinoDroid ing an app, DinoDroid first checks whether there exists a
selects the event e t with the highest accumulative reward learnedmodel,whichsavesalllearnedknowledge(weights
(i.e., Q value), performs the corresponding action a t, and on neural networks) of DinoDroid. If so, the model will
brings the app to a new state s t+1. After performing a t, be updated to adapt this app; otherwise, DinoDroid starts
DinoDroid employs a special event flow graph to gener- buildinganewmodel(Line2).Amemoryisusedtorecord
ate feature values for each event in s t+1. A reward r t is the samples from earlier iterations (Line 3), where each
generated based on the observed code coverage and app sample contains the feature values of the executed event
crashes.Apositivenumberisassignedtor tifcodecoverage and the associated Q value. An event flow graph (EFG)
increasesorauniquebugisdetectedandanegativenumber is initialized for each app at the beginning of training or
is assigned if the coverage does not change. The deep Q- testing(Line4).NotethatthememoryandtheEFGwillbe
network agent uses a neural network model to compute abandoned after completing an iteration of the current app

## Page 5

5
because the needed information has already been learned
and saved in the model. The details of the EFG will be
described in Section 3.2.2. Next, DinoDroid launches the
app and reaches the first page. The initial state of DQN is
obtained and the EFG is updated accordingly (Lines 5–6).
The algorithm then takes the current page and the EFG to
generate features for each GUI event on the current page
(Line 7). DinoDroid considers three types of features as
describedinSection3.2.
Now the iteration begins until a time limit is reached
Fig.4:FCDextraction
(Lines 8–22). To amplify the chance of bug detection, Din-
Execution frequency of children events (FCD). A human
oDroidissuesarandomsystemeventatevery10iterations
tester often makes a decision on which event to execute
(Line 9–10) by using Stoat [8]’s system event generation
not only based on the events of current page, but also the
library. At each iteration, DinoDroid uses a deep neural
succeedingpages(childrenpages)afterexecutinganevent.
networkmodeltoselecttheeventwiththehighestaccumu-
For example, if executing an event e brings the app into a
lativereward(i.e.,Qvalue)andperformthecorresponding
page containing many unexecuted events, e is likely to be
action (Line 11). The details of the getActionEvent will be
selectedovertheothereventsthatbringtheappintoapage
describedinSection3.3.2.Aftertheexecution,thealgorithm
containing all events already being executed. Toward this
obtainsthreekindsofinformation:thenewpage,thecurrent
end,DinoDroidusestheexecutionfrequenciesofeventson
codecoverage,andthecrashlog(maybeempty)(Line12).
children pages as a feature for each event of the current
The information is used to compute the reward r t (Line page. The mth (m > 0) generation of children pages are
13). Then, the event flow graph G is updated based on the
defined as the succeeding pages with distance m from the
new page p t+1 (Line 14). With the updated G and the new
current event in the event flow graph. As the example
page, the algorithm can generate features for each event
shown in Fig. 4 , the first generation of children pages
D
in
in
t
o
h
D
e
r
s
o
t
i
a
d
te
u
s
se
t+
s
1
th
(
e
L
e
in
q
e
ua
1
t
5
io
).
n
B
(
a
1
s
)
e
i
d
nS
o
e
n
ct
s
io
t,
n
s
2
t
.
+
2.
1
2
,
t
a
o
t,
co
a
m
nd
pu
r
t
t
e
, containsonlyonepage(i.e.,Page 1),whichresultsfromexe-
cutingtheselectedevent(bytheagent)onthecurrentpage.
theQvalueofeacheventins t (Line16).Totraintheneural
The second generation of children pages includes pages
network,itusesasetoftrainingsamples,includingboththe
currentsampleandhistorysamples.Eachsampleusesa t as
resulting from executing all events on the page (Page 1).
DinoDroid’sFCDfeatureencodestheexecutionfrequencies
inputandQvalueasoutput(i.e.,label).Thehistorysamples
ofeventsintheKthgenerationofchildrenpages.Bydefault
(obtainedfromearlieriterations)arerecordedinamemory
K=3,asweobservedthatifK>3,italmostdoesnotaffect
(Lines 17–20). In each iteration, the history sample size is
theselectionofanevent.
settobe4duetocost-effectiveness.Alargerhistorysample
DinoDroidemploysafixedlengthfeaturevectorforeach
sizecanbesetbyuserstoretainmorehistoricalinformation
generationofchildrenpages.Intuitively,eachelementinthe
fortraining,butitmayalsoleadtoamuchhighercost.
vector represents an event on the current generation and
the value of the element records the execution frequency
3.2 FeatureGeneration of the event. However, a generation of children pages may
containanumberofevents;encodingthemallintoafeature
DinoDroid generates features for each event e. These fea-
vector may lead to an unbearable size of vectors for a
turesarefedintoaneuralnetworkasshowninFig.6sothat
neural network to train. Instead, DinoDroid encodes each
theagentcanchooseanaction(i.e.,whicheventtoexercise).
elementinthevectorasthenumberofeventsinthecurrent
DinoDroidcurrentlysupportsthreefeatures,namely,execu-
generationthatwereexecutedN times,whereN isequalto
tion frequency of current events, execution frequency of children
the index of the vector. By default, the length of the vector
events, and textual content of events. DinoDroid employs an
issetto10.Forexample,ifthereisatotalof20eventsinthe
event flow graph (EFG) at runtime to obtain the features
currentgenerationm,where12eventswereneverexecuted
and transforms them into numerical data format vectors
and 8 events were executed twice, the feature vector of m
providedasinputstotheneuralnetwork.
will be [12,0,8,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]. Since K is considered by
DinoDroid,itwillgenerateK vectorsfortheFCDfeature.
3.2.1 TypesofFeatures
Textual content of events (TXC). The textual content of
Execution frequency of current events (FCR). The insight eventsmayhelptheagentmakethedecisiononwhichevent
behindthisfeatureisthatahumanoftenavoidsrepeatedly toselect.IntheexampleofFig.1,themeaningof“OK”event
executing an event that brings the app to the same page. suggests that it has a higher chance to bring the app to a
Therefore, all GUI events should be given chances to ex- new page than the other events. To obtain the TXC feature
ecute. Instead of using pre-defined rules or thresholds to for each event, DinoDroid first employs Word2Vec [30] to
weigh different events to decide which ones should be as- convert each word in the event to a vector with a fixed
signed higher priorities to execute [8], DinoDroid automat- length L. The Word2Vec model is trained from a public
ically guides the selection of events based on the recorded dataset text8 containing 16 million words and is provided
FCR feature value. FCR encodes the number of times that alongwiththesourcecodeofWord2Vec[31].
eacheventwasexecutedduringtheexploration.Thefeature The text on an event widget can have more than one
valueisupdatedbyaddingonewhentheeventisexecuted. words,suchas“statusbarshortcut”inFig.5.Therefore,we

## Page 6

6
page is encountered, it will be added as a vertex to the
EFG. However, if we use the vertices as states in DQN, it
could cause the states to be huge or even unbounded [33],
[34], [35], [36], [8]. Also, when encountering a similar page
with a minor difference from an earlier page, if DinoDroid
treats it as a new state, it could generate unbounded fake
new events and thus waste exploration time. For example,
inFig. 5,therearemanysameeventsonthepagestriggered
bythe“scroll”event.Ifweconsideralloftheeventsforeach
scrolltriggeredpage,DinoDroidwillwastetimetoexecute
the same events again and again without code coverage
increase.Therefore,suchsimilarpagesshouldbecombined
toavoidthisproblem.
There have been techniques on compacting EFG for
efficient exploration. For example, Stoat [8] ignores the
details of ListView events by categorizing it into “empty”
and “non-empty”, so it can merge two similar pages with
only the ListView events are different into the same state.
However, it may lose important information since some of
the events triggered by the items under the ListView may
be critical. In contrast, DinoDroid compacts the EFG by
merging vertices instead of pages. Specifically, whenever
a new page P(cid:48) is encountered, DinoDroid retrieves the
pages with the same Android Activity ID [37] using UI
Automator [38] from the existing EFG. It then compares
thetextofeachvertexinP(cid:48) withtheverticesofeachofthe
retrieved pages. If the texts are the same, the two events
are merged into a single vertex. The “Similar” tag in Fig. 5
recordstheinformationofthemergedvertex(i.e.,pageid—
eventid).Assuch,whenaneventeisexecuted,thefeature
vectors/matrices of both e’s vertex and its merged vertex
Fig.5:EventFlowGraphExample
are updated. Therefore, the same events will get an equal
usethefirstN wordstobuildtheTXCfeature.Ifthenumber
chancetobeexecuted.
of words on an widget is smaller than N, DinoDroid fills
thevectorswithallzerostopadthewords.Asaresult,the
3.3 DinoDroid’sDeepQ-Networks
TXC feature is encoded as a matrix L * N, where L=400
and N = 6 by default. According to Pennington et al. [32], DinoDroid’s DQN agent examines the current state of the
L >300 has stable performance. We tried {300, 400} in our app and performs an action, i.e., selects the event with the
experiment and found no different results. We use L=400 largestQvalue.
becausealargersizecanbetterrepresentthetext.WesetN
tobe6becausethewordnumberoneventsisrarelyupto6 3.3.1 DNNmodel
basedonourobservation. OneofthekeycomponentsinDinoDroidisaDeepNeural
Note that all configuration parameters (e.g., K, L, and Network(DNN)model,whichusesequation(1)tocompute
N) can be adjusted to be larger values by users to achieve the Q value. The DNN takes the features of the event from
potentially better coverage, but at the cost of substantial last action a t as input and outputs the Q value, which is
amountoftimeintrainingandtesting. equal to r t +γ ∗maxQ(s t+1 ,a). Comparing to regular RL
a
using a Q-table, DNN is able to calculate Q values from
3.2.2 CompactedEventFlowGraph anydimensionsoffeaturesforeachevent.TheDNNmodel
DinoDroid uses an event flow graph (EFG) to obtain fea- involvesfeaturehandlingandfeaturemerging.Thefeature
tures. The graph is represented by G = (V, E). The set of handling component employs a neural network algorithm
vertices, V, represent events using their unique IDs. The to process each individual feature into a specific modality,
set of edges, E, represent event transitions (i.e., from the representedbyaone-dimensionvector.Thefeaturemerging
selectedeventetoalleventsinthenextpage)triggeredby component combines the vectors of all features and passes
executing e. Each vertex records the three types of features themintothefinalfullyconnectedlayer[39]thatisusedto
described in Section 3.2.1. Fig. 5 shows an example, where determine the event’s Q value. The purpose of the feature
each page is associated with a list of vertices and their handling process is to help DNN make an accurate predic-
features. The last label (“Similar”) will be discussed later tion.
inthesection. Feature handling. DinoDroid employs specific DNN sub-
DinoDroid’s event flow graph is compacted in order to models to process individual features according to their
accommodate DQN. This is also the main difference from types. For example, as shown in Fig. 6, the TXC feature is
traditional EFGs [5] . In traditional EFG, whenever a new processed by a convolutional neural network (CNN) based

## Page 7

7
Fig.6:DeepQ-NetworkModel
on natural language processing (NLP) and maxpool [40]. policy in reinforcement learning, to select the next event.
TheFCRfeatureishandledbyafullyconnectedlayer[39], DinoDroid selects the event with the highest Q value with
whichisacommonandefficientlayerinneuralnetworkto probability 1 − ε and a random event with probability ε.
process vectors. Other algorithms [41] could also be used The Q value is computed by the neural network model
butmayinvolveadditionalcost. (Section 2.2.2). The value of ε can be adjusted by users.
DinoDroid’s DNN model can be easily extended to By default ε = 0.2, which is the same as the value used
process other features. For example, users can take image in Q-testing [11]. In order to amplify the chance of bug
as another type of feature by leveraging existing image detection, DinoDroid also generates system-level events at
classification algorithms [42]. The DNN model accepts the every10iterations,suchasscreenrotation,volumecontrol,
formatsofsinglevalue,vector,andmatrix.Bydefault,single andphonecalls[8].
valueandvectorarehandledbyafullyconnectedlayerand
3.3.3 RewardFunction
matrixishandledby1-DCNN [28].
Inreinforcementlearning,arewardisusedtoguidetraining
Feature merging.SincetheDNNmodelpredictsaQvalue
and testing. DinoDroid’s reward function is based on code
based on all features, it combines the vectors generated
coverageandbugdetection.Specifically,DinoDroidsetsthe
by the feature handling components into a large one-
reward to a positive number (r=5) when the code cover-
dimensional vector. All input features to the DNN share
age increases or revealing a unique crash and a negative
the unique loss function described in Section 2.2.2. We
number (r=-2) when the coverage does not change. To
leverageKerasdeeplearningarchitecture,whichiscapable
determine if a unique crash is revealed, we resort to the
of accepting mixed multiple inputs [43]. It then utilizes a
error message. In the log of an app execution, each crash
three-fully connected layers [44] to process the large vector
is associated an accurate error message. If the same error
andpredictsaQvalue.Thelastlayerwithalinearactivation
message has happened before, we ignore it. The absolute
to output just one value to represent the Q value. We
value of positive reward is larger than that of the negative
use a stochastic gradient descent algorithm, Adam [45] to
rewardisbecausetheintentionislettingthemachinefavor
optimize the model with a learning rate 0.0001. The Adam
higher coverage or detecting bugs. The reward values are
optimizationalgorithmisanextensionofstochasticgradient
configurable, however, these default values work well on
descent, which has been widely adopted for deep learning
differenttypesofapps,asshownintheexperiments.
applications in computer vision and natural language pro-
Otherrewardfunctions,suchasmeasuringtheapppage
cessing[46],[47].
statechangesmayalsobeused[11],[10],[13],[18],[19].For
3.3.2 ActionSelection example,Q-testing[11]calculatesthedifferencebetweenthe
DinoDroid’s DQN agent performs an action by selecting currentpagestateandthestatesofrecordedpages.
an event to execute from the current page. For editable
events(e.g.textfields),DinoDroidautomaticallygeneratesa 4 EVALUATION
randomstringwithdigit,char,andpunctuation.DinoDroid To evaluate DinoDroid, we consider three research ques-
maintainsaQvalueforeachevent.AtthefirstT iterations, tions:
DinoDroid executes random events to construct the DQN
RQ1: How does DinoDroid compare with the state-of-the-
model. Randomness is necessary for an agent navigating
artAndroidtestingtoolsintermsofcodecoverage?
through a stochastic maze to learn the optimal policy [48].
By default, T=20. After that, DinoDroid starts to use DNN RQ2: How does DinoDroid compare with the state-of-the-
artAndroidtestingtoolsintermsofbugdetection?
toselectanevent.
Todeterminewhicheventtoexecuteonthecurrentpage, RQ3: Can DinoDroid understand the features and learn a
DinoDroid uses the ε-greedy policy [49], a widely adopted correctmodel?

## Page 8

8
4.1 Datasets Note that while the training time of DinoDroid is ex-
tensive, we believe the cost will be diluted as the number
We need to prepare datasets for evaluating our approach.
of apps increases. If new apps are added to the training
SinceSapienz[50]andStoat[8]aretwoofthebaselinetools
set, the existing model is directly updated without training
that contain publicly available datasets to compare with,
fromscratch.Fortheexistingnon-learning-basedtools(e.g.,
we used the datasets from their papers [2]. The datasets
Monkey, Sapienz), updating pre-defined rules often needs
contains a total of 68 apps that falls into 18 domains [51].
hugeprofessionalhumaneffort.
Weremovedfourappsbecausetheycrashrightafterlaunch
on our Intel Atom(x86) emulator. The executable lines of
code in the apps range from 109 to 22,208, indicating that 5 RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
theyrepresentappswithdifferentlevelsofcomplexity.
5.1 RQ1:CodeCoverage
Table 1 shows the results of code coverage obtained from
4.2 Implementation
DinoDroidandtheotherfivetoolson64apps.Foreachtool,
Weconductedourexperimentonafour-core3.60GHZCPU wecomputetheaverageofthecoveragescorescollectedin
(with no GPU acceleration) physical x86 machine running threetestruns.Thetestresultsandlogfilescanbefoundin
withUbuntu16.04.Withthismachine,DinoDroidcansend ourexperimentdataset[22].
an event in 1.43 seconds on average. The dynamic explo- On average, DinoDroid achieves 48.9% line coverage,
ration component is implemented on UI Automator [38]. which is 22.8%, 17.8% 13.7%, 16.1%, and 18.6% more ef-
The system events issued during testing are obtained from fective than Monkey, Q-testing, QBE, Stoat, and Sapienz,
Androguard [52]. DinoDroid uses Emma [53] to obtain respectively. Specifically, DinoDroid achieved the highest
statementcoverage.Keras[54]isusedtobuildandrunthe coverage in 33 apps, compared to 16 apps in Sapienz, 9 in
deep neural network. The DQN agent is implemented by Stoat,10inQ-testing,8inQBE,and5inMonkey.Theresults
ourselvesusingPython. indicateDinoDroidiseffectiveinachievinghighcoverage.
We analyzed the app code covered by different tools.
Takingtheapp“Nectroid”[55]asanexample,manyevents
4.3 StudyOperation
reside in deep levels of EFG, which require a number of
We performed a two-fold cross validation by randomly steps to explore. For instance, two widgets are associated
dividingthewhole64appsdatasetintotwosetswitheach withimportantfunctionalities:“addanewsite”and“delete
set containing 32 apps. It took 128 hours finish the exper- asite”.Exercisingthefirstwidgetrequires7steps(launched
iment. An added fold would take about three more days. page → menu → settings → select a site → new site → fill
Specifically, the process randomly picked 32 apps as the blankets→OK)andexercisingthesecondwidgetrequires6
training set and used the remaining 32 apps as the testing steps(launchedpage→menu→settings→selectasite→
set.Inthenextfold,thefirst32appsareusedinthetesting Nectarine(long click) → delete → OK). Monkey, QBE, and
setandtheother32appsinthetrainingset.Therefore,each Sapienzfailedtocoverthetwoparticularsequencesbecause
app has a chance to be involved in both the training set they were not able to navigate the app to the deep levels.
and the testing set. The testing time of DinoDroid is set to Q-testing failed to reach “delete a site”. It finished “add a
onehourforeachapp,whichisconsistentwithmanyother new site”, but was not able to fill in any text information
Androidapptestingtools[50],[12],[11],[19]. GiventhatRL of the new site. Stoat was very close to reach “add a site”,
hasthetendencytoexhibithighvariabilityacrossruns,we but at the last step, it selected “Cancel” instead of “OK”.
repeat the testing for three times. The results are averaged On the other hand, DinoDroid exercised the “OK” widget
overthe3executionsofeachtool. in 90% of pages that contain “OK”, “Cancel”, and a few
other functional widgets during the learning process. We
conjecturethatthisisbecauseDinoDroidisabletolearnthat
4.4 ComparisonwithExistingTools
clicking“OK”widgetismorelikelytoincreasecoverage.
WecomparedDinoDroidwithfiveexistingAndroidtesting
tools:Monkey[3],Stoat[8],Sapienz[50],andQBE[10],Q-
5.2 RQ2:BugDetection
testing[11].Monkeyisarandomtestingtool.Stoatemploys
model-based testing and pre-defined heuristic methods to Table 1 shows the number of unique bugs detected by
explore the less unexecuted actions. Sapienz employs evo- the six tools (on the left of ”/”). We reported the number
lutionary testing. Both QBE and Q-testing use traditional of unique bugs detected in all three repeated runs. Like
Q-learningandQBEcanalsotrainandtestondifferentsets existing tools [8], [50], [11], we consider a bug to be a
ofapps.ThedetailsofthetoolsarediscussedinSection7. crash or an exception. The results showed that DinoDroid
The testing time for all tools is set to one hour. Like detectedthelargestnumberofbugs(269)comparedtoMon-
DinoDroid,werepeatedtheexperimentthreetimes.Wefol- key (73), Q-testing (54), QBE (59), Stoat (189), and Sapienz
lowed previous work [2], [11] to set 200 milliseconds delay (63)).Specifically,DinoDroiddetectedmostbugsin38apps,
between events for Monkey to avoid abnormal behaviors. whichismoreeffectivethanMonkey(5),Q-testing(0),QBE
Stoat [8] allocates one hour for model construction phase (3),Stoat(20),andSapnize(2).
and two hours for Gibbs sampling phase. To use Stoat in DinoDroidandStoatdetectedasignificantlylargernum-
ourone-hourtesting,wefollowedthesuggestionproposed berofbugsbecausetheybothuseandroguard[52]toissue
in[11],inwhicheachphaseofStoatissetto30minutesfor system-level events to amplify the chance of bug detec-
thebestperformance. tion (Section 3.3.2). When disabling system-level events,

## Page 9

9
DinoDroid still detected the largest number of bugs (130), content of the widgets (i.e., perform expect actions). The
compared to Monkey (72), Q-testing (47), QBE (52), Stoat resultsshowthat91%ofpagesperformedexpectedactions
(78),andSapienz(59).Thenumbersarereportedintheright with the difference between highest Q value and lowest Q
sideof“/”inTable1.Specifically,DinoDroiddetectedmost valuegreaterthan10%.
number of bugs in 26 apps, which is more effective than The above results suggest that the behaviors of the app
Monkey(13),Q-testing(4),QBE(6),Stoat(11),andSapnize featureslearnedbyDinoDroidaremostlyexpected.
(9). The above results suggest that DinoDroid is effective in
detectingbugs. 5.3.2 Understanding the Effectiveness of Individual Fea-
Figure7showsthepairwisecomparisonofbugdetection tures
results between tools (with system-level events) in a single We next explore how each of the three features affects the
run. The black bars indicate the number of bugs detected coverage effectiveness of DinoDroid. To achieve this, we
in common and the grey bars indicate the number of bugs repeatedtheexperimentbutdisabledtheFCRfeature,FCD
detecteduniquelyineachtool. Forexample,StoatandDin- feature, and TXC feature separately. The results suggest
oDroid detected 50 bugs in common. However, DinoDroid that DinoDroid’s average code coverage is higher than the
detected 37 bugs not detected by Stoat and Stoat detected coverage of the absence of FCR, FCD, and TXC by 0.7%,
12bugsnotdetectedbyDinoDroid. 2.4%,3%,respectively.
Wefoundtheresultssurprising.Priortotheexperiment,
we expected the FCR feature to be the most crucial feature
5.3 RQ3:UnderstandingtheLearnedModel
during testing because using event frequency to guide the
RQ3 is used to understand whether the DQN agent can exploration is intuitive and has been a common strategy
correctly learn the app behaviors based on the provided used in existing work [8]. However, the actual result sug-
features. To do this, we analyzed the logs generated by the gests that the textual feature (TXT) contributes more than
DQNagentforthe64apps. theotherfeatures.Therefore,itisveryimportantforatester
oratooltounderstandthemeaningoftext.
5.3.1 UnderstandingtheBehaviorsofIndividualFeatures
5.3.3 TheWholeDQNModelBehaviors
FCR feature. We first would like to understand the be-
The above experiment suggests how individual features
havior of the FCR feature. Specifically, we would like to
affectthelearningprocessofDinoDroid.Wenextconducted
know whether DinoDroid will assign a higher priority to
adeeperanalysistounderstandthebehaviorsofDinoDroid
unexecutedeventsoverexecutedeventsinthecurrentpage.
under the combination of the three features. To do this, we
We hereby computed the percentage of pages performing
randomly selected a model from the two models learned
expectedactions(i.e.,triggeringunexecutedevents)among
from the 64 apps (by two cross-fold validation). We used
allpages.Weconsideronlyunexecutedandexecutedevents
this model to process the first page of the 32 apps, which
instead of execution frequency because we need to silent
were not used to train the model. We then manually set
the influence of children pages (i.e., the FCD feature) as
thevaluesofFCRandTXCfeatureswhilekeepingtheTXC
unexecuted events do not invoke children pages. In total,
featureasdefaultandseehowthemodelbehaves.
there are 16,169 pages containing both executed and unex-
AsshowninTable2,“FCR”indicatestheexecutionfre-
ecuted events, with a total of 197,279 events; 85.2% of the
quencyofthecurrenteventisexecutedand“FCD”indicates
pages performed expected actions. We then computed the
the three generations of children pages with the number of
probability of randomly selecting an event from each page
unexecutedeventsandthenumberofeventsbeingexecuted
andfoundthatonly51.6%ofthepagesperformedexpected
once(i.e.,thefirsttwoelementsinthefeaturevector).Each
actions. The results show that DinoDroid indeed behaves
numberinthetableistheQvalueaveragedacrossallevents
betterthanarandomapproach.
with the same feature setting. For example, <(6#1); (1#1);
FCD feature.Wenextwouldliketounderstandthebehav- (1#1)>+“1”(thesecondrow+thethirdcolumn)indicates
ior of the FCD feature. Specifically, we would like to know
thatwhenaneventisexecutedonce,thefirstgenerationof
whether DinoDroid tends to select events with unexecuted
its children page contains six unexecuted events and one
childreneventsoverthosewithexecutedchildrenevents.To
eventisexecutedonce,andthesecondandthirdgeneration
control the variation of event execution frequencies (FCR),
of its children pages have one unexecuted events and one
we selected only pages that contain events with the same
eventisexecutedonce.
execution frequency from the traces. As a result, 495 pages
DinoDroid learned the following behaviors as shown
with a total of 3,182 events were selected and 81.2 % of
in Table 2. First, the Q value of (6#1);(1#1);(1#1) is larger
the pages performed expected actions (i.e., selecting events
than that of (1#6);(1#1);(1#1). This indicates that an event
with unexecuted children events). When using a random
with more unexecuted children events in the first gener-
selection,only33.6%pagesperformedexpectedactions.
ation is more likely to be selected. Second, the Q value
TXC feature. We also examined if DinoDroid is able to of (1#1);(6#1);(1#1) is larger than that of (1#1);(1#6);(1#1)
understand the content of events. To do this, we control and the Q value of (1#1); (1#1); (6#1) is larger than that
the variations of FCR and FCD features by selecting pages of (1#1); (1#1); (1#6). This indicates the second and third
that do not contain any executed events from the traces. generation (or perhaps the subsequence generations) of
A total of 3,060 pages were selected. We hypothesize that children events can also guide the exploration like the first
if Q values of these events are different (i.e., their textual generation.Third,theunexecutedeventonthecurrentpage
content is different), DinoDroid is able to recognize the has the highest priority to be selected since its Q value is

## Page 10

10
TABLE1: TestingResultforComparison
#APP. #LOC CodeCoverage #FaultTriggered
Mon. Qt. QBE. St. Sap. DD. Mon. Qt. QBE. St. Sap. DD.
soundboard 109 31 42 42 42 56 42 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
gestures 121 26 32 32 32 51 32 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
fileexplorer 126 31 40 40 40 31 40 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
adsdroid 236 13 40 29 29 33 25 3/3 3/3 0/0 5/2 3/2 3/0
MunchLife 254 65 63 65 65 71 66 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
Amazed 340 66 58 69 58 71 73 6/6 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/3 1/1
battery 342 72 71 69 71 54 73 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/3 1/1 9/9
manpages 385 58 58 62 48 67 63 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/0 0/0 3/0
RandomMusicPlayer 400 52 70 65 74 51 60 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/0 0/0 3/0
AnyCut 436 61 60 62 61 65 62 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
autoanswer 479 11 13 13 26 16 24 0/0 0/0 0/0 4/1 0/0 5/2
LNM 492 54 58 56 62 55 60 0/0 0/0 0/0 6/0 1/1 3/0
baterydog 556 62 55 62 54 67 62 1/1 0/0 0/0 1/1 0/0 0/0
yahtzee 597 38 10 43 49 43 57 1/1 0/0 3/3 3/0 0/0 6/3
LolcatBuilder 646 25 25 20 25 27 52 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
CounterdownTimer 650 58 60 69 77 45 77 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
lockpatterngenerator 669 78 69 75 66 79 78 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
whohasmystuff 729 46 65 66 67 32 74 3/3 0/0 0/0 3/0 0/0 3/0
Translate 799 45 44 43 40 48 47 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
wikipedia 809 25 27 26 27 29 27 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 6/3
DivideAndConquer 814 83 53 79 52 80 58 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/3 0/0
zooborns 817 34 20 29 35 36 35 0/0 3/3 0/0 4/1 0/0 3/0
multismssender 828 49 29 48 49 60 68 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/0 0/0 3/0
Mirrored 862 44 45 45 45 45 45 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/0 0/0 3/0
myLock 885 26 29 27 44 30 42 0/0 0/0 0/0 4/1 0/0 6/3
aLogCat 901 66 65 67 70 40 79 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
aGrep 928 45 38 49 37 54 57 1/0 3/3 9/6 2/2 3/3 9/6
dialer2 978 37 36 38 34 35 46 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/0 1/1 3/0
hndroid 1038 7 10 11 9 8 9 3/3 3/3 2/2 3/3 3/3 4/3
Bites 1060 32 36 28 42 39 50 3/3 3/3 1/1 11/8 3/3 14/11
tippy 1083 82 75 60 74 80 83 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
weight−chart 1116 38 40 61 41 55 75 2/2 2/2 1/1 3/3 1/1 3/3
importcontacts 1139 40 41 63 37 42 41 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
worldclock 1242 89 92 92 92 90 89 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/0 0/0 3/0
blokish 1245 41 36 50 36 44 50 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 1/1 3/3
aka 1307 53 78 80 61 80 64 2/2 2/2 3/3 0/0 3/3 9/9
Photostream 1375 20 22 14 24 27 21 3/3 3/3 3/3 9/6 3/3 6/3
dalvik−explorer 1375 39 67 69 69 70 70 3/3 3/0 4/3 3/0 4/3 6/3
tomdroid 1519 47 54 50 52 50 53 0/0 0/0 0/0 1/1 0/0 3/3
PasswordMaker 1535 57 61 53 56 33 56 1/1 4/4 8/8 12/9 3/3 11/8
frozenbubble 1706 81 55 58 55 78 74 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
aarddict 2197 13 31 28 30 14 18 0/0 0/0 0/0 6/6 0/0 0/0
swiftp 2214 13 13 12 13 13 13 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/0
netcounter 2454 44 70 67 61 44 76 0/0 1/0 0/0 4/1 0/0 3/0
alarmclock 2491 64 67 64 67 37 70 3/3 1/1 0/0 8/2 3/3 7/1
Nectroid 2536 34 64 31 58 57 70 1/1 1/1 0/0 3/0 1/1 5/2
QuickSettings 2934 52 38 41 38 48 48 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/3
MyExpenses 2935 48 38 42 42 20 61 0/0 0/0 0/0 4/1 0/0 3/1
a2dp 3523 43 32 38 41 30 45 0/0 0/0 0/0 1/0 0/0 9/3
mnv 3673 22 44 34 43 8 45 3/3 2/2 3/3 3/3 1/1 6/3
hotdeath 3902 62 52 64 49 64 75 1/1 1/1 2/2 0/0 0/0 2/2
SyncMyPix 4104 21 20 20 25 21 26 0/0 0/0 0/0 3/0 0/0 3/0
jamendo 4430 21 16 24 14 23 26 1/1 1/1 2/2 7/3 0/0 9/3
mileage 4628 19 37 32 31 36 60 4/4 1/1 1/1 10/4 3/3 12/5
sanity 4840 19 25 16 22 15 34 2/2 3/0 2/0 2/0 4/1 5/2
fantastichmemo 8419 24 39 32 22 28 43 3/3 4/4 1/1 5/2 1/1 9/3
anymemo 8428 30 41 30 30 27 43 1/1 2/2 0/0 4/1 1/1 10/6
Book−Catalogue 9857 34 37 25 11 24 32 3/3 1/1 4/3 3/0 1/1 10/7
Wordpress 10100 5 3 4 5 4 8 0/0 0/0 0/0 9/6 0/0 10/4
passwordmanager 10833 10 3 5 7 4 8 1/1 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 2/0
aagtl 11724 15 18 16 16 17 17 5/5 4/4 3/3 4/4 6/6 4/4
morphoss 17148 12 17 19 18 11 25 4/4 0/0 1/1 6/3 2/2 10/4
addi 19945 14 16 18 17 19 18 6/6 3/3 3/3 6/3 3/3 6/3
k9mail 22208 5 7 11 7 5 7 0/0 0/0 0/0 6/1 1/1 7/1
Overall 39.8 41.5 43 42.1 41.2 48.9 73/72 54/47 59/52 189/78 63/59 269/130
DD.=DinoDroid.St.=StoatMon.=MonkeySap.=SapienzQt.=Q-testing”a/b”indicatesa=#crashesforallandb=#crasheswithoutsystemlevelevents
TABLE 2: DinoDroid’s behavior on every feature combina-
significantlylarger(i.e.,FCR=0).Fourth,withthesameFCD
tion
feature values, the event with less execution frequency on
FCR the current page has a higher priority to be selected since
0 1 2 3 4 5
FCD theQvalueisdecreasingasthevalueofFCRincreases.
<(6#1),(1#1),(1#1)> - 3.45 2.32 1.2 -0.65 -0.47
All of the above behaviors align with the intuition on
<(1#6);(1#1);(1#1)> - 2.57 0.23 -0.171 -3.35 -3.55
<(1#1);(6#1);(1#1)> - 3.44 2.03 0.16 0.19 0.00 how human would test apps with the three types of features
<(1#1);(1#6);(1#1)> - 1.01 0.92 -0.31 -3.59 -3.96 and demonstrate that DinoDroid’s DQN can automatically
<(1#1);(1#1);(6#1)> - 1.92 0.97 1.07 -0.9 -3.2
<(1#1);(1#1);(1#6)> - 1.09 0.81 0.21 -3.3 -4.53 learn these behaviors without the need to manually set heuristic
<(1#1);(1#1);(1#1)> - 1.01 0.78 -1.66 -3.86 -4.32 rules.
<(0#0);(0#0);(0#0)> 10.96 -4.42 -4.98 -5.09 -5.13 -5.14
<(A#B);(C#D);(E#F)>:thefirstgenerationhasAunexecuted
eventsandBeventsareexecutedonce;thesecondgeneration 6 LIMITATIONS AND THREATS TO VALIDITY
hasC unexecutedeventsandDeventsareexecutedonce;the DinoDroid has several limitations. First, DinoDroid cur-
thirdgenerationhasE unexecutedeventsandF eventsare
rently considers three features. As part of the future work,
executedonce.

## Page 11

11
Fig.7:Comparisonoftoolsindetectingcrashes
we will assess whether other features, such as images of errorsintheimplementationsofDinoDroid.Wecontrolthis
widgets and the execution of sequences of actions that threat by testing our tools extensively and verifying their
compose complete use cases, can improve the performance results against a small-scale program for which we can
of DinoDroid. Second, DinoDroid handles feature values manuallydeterminethecorrectresults.
representedbymatricesorvectors.However,somefeatures
mayneedmorecomplexrepresentations(e.g.,multiplecom-
7 RELATED WORK
plex matrices) and processing them may take substantial
amount of time. Third, in the current version, DinoDroid There have been a number of techniques on automated
measures line coverage to train the apps, so we focus on Android GUI testing. Random testing [3] uses random
open-source apps. DinoDroid can be extended to handle strategies to generate events. Because of its simplicity and
closed-source apps by collecting method-level coverage or availability, it can send thousands of events per second to
usingnon-code-relatedrewards.Fourth,forafaircompari- theappsandcanthusgethighcodecoverage.However,the
son,DinoDroiddoesnotutilizeextraadvantageousfeatures generatedeventsmaybelargelyredundantandineffective.
(e.g.loginscript,shortmessagerecords,contactrecords)in DynoDroid [4] improved random testing by exploring the
itscurrentversion,becausenoneofthestate-of-the-arttools app in a manner that can avoid testing redundant wid-
have such features by default. It is also very challenging to gets. But it may still be ineffective in reaching functional-
modify the tools to implement these features because we ities involving deep levels of the app due to randomness.
cannot control their installation of apps and do not know Sapienz [50] uses multi-objective search-based testing to
whentoruntheloginscripts.Nevertheless,webelievethat maximize coverage and fault revelation at the same time
adding the extra functionality might increase the effective- to optimize test sequences and minimize length. TimeMa-
nessofcoverageandbugdetectioninDinoDroidandtheex- chine[58]enhancesrandomtestingwiththeabilitytojump
istingtools.Forexample,afterweaddedtheloginfunction toastateinthepast.
inDinoDroid,k9mail’scodecoveragewasincreasedto40% Model-based [5], [6], [7], [33], [59], [60], [61], [62] build
inonehour,comparedwith7%coveragewithoutthelogin and use a GUI model of the app to generate tests. The
function. Su et al. [56] implemented the login function and models are usually represented by finite state machines
resolvedsomeusabilityissuesforthesixtoolsintheirstudy, to model app states and their transitions. For example,
but the apps in our benchmarks are emma instrumented Stoat [8]utilizesastochasticFiniteStateMachinemodelto
and thus incompatible with their tools, which are jacoco describethebehaviorofappundertest.Section2.2discusses
instrumented. As part of future work, we will implement Stoat.Unlikemodel-basedtesting,DinoDroiddoesnotneed
theextraadvantageousfeaturesinDinoDroid,aswellasin to model the app behaviors. Instead, it can automatically
thestate-of-the-arttoolsinourstudy.Wewillalsocompare learnappbehaviorsbydeepQ-networks.
DinoDroid with more existing tools, such as those studied Systematictestingtools,suchassymbolicexecution[63],
in [56]. Fifth, the current version of our approach uses a [64], aims to generate test cases to cover some code that
fixed reward. Existing work (Q-testing [11]) has designed is hard to reach. While symbolic execution may be able
anadaptiverewardfunctiontoexploitaneuralnetworkto to exercise functionalities that are hard to reach, it is less
calculated the difference between two states (app pages) to scalableandnoteffectiveincodecoverageorbugdetection.
determine the reward value. We believe that our approach Machine learning techniques have also been used in
can work with the adaptive reward function by simply testing Android apps. These techniques can be classified
using Q-testing’s trained model to determine the reward intotwocategories[11].Thetechniquesinthefirstcategory
value. typically have an explicit training process to learn knowl-
The primary threat to the external validity of this work edge from existing apps then apply the learned experience
involves the representativeness of the apps used in our onnewapps[10],[15],[12],[65],[13].Forexample,QBE[10]
study. Other apps may exhibit different behaviors. We re- learns how to test android apps in a training set by a Q-
duce this threat to some extent by using a set of apps learning. As discussed in Section 2.4, QBE is not able to
developed and released by prior research work [2], which capturefine-grainedappbehaviorsduetothelimitationsof
has been extensively used by existing Android testing re- Q-learning.
search[57],[12].Theseappswerealsousedbythebaseline In addition to QBE, Degott et al. [15] use learning to
tools(i.e.,Stoat[8],Sapienz[50])inourstudy. identifyvalidinteractionsforaGUIwidget(e.g.,whethera
Theprimarythreattointernalvalidityinvolvespotential

## Page 12

12
widgetacceptsinteractions).Itthenusesthisinformationto features,DinoDroidcanlearnapolicytargetingatachieving
guideappexploration.Theirfollowingwork[13]usesMBA high code coverage. We have evaluated DinoDroid on 64
reinforcement learning to guide the exploration based on appsfromawidelyusedbenchmarkandshowedthatDin-
theabstractedfeatures:validinteractionsandinvalidinter- oDroidoutperformsthestate-of-the-artandstate-of-practice
actions.However,likeQBE,thesetechniquescannothandle Android GUI testing tools in both code coverage and bug
complex app features because of the high-level abstraction detection.Byanalyzingthetestingtracesofthe64apps,we
ofstateinformation. arealsoabletotellthatthemachinereallyunderstandsthe
Humanoid [12]employsdeeplearningtotrainamodel featuresandprovidesasensiblestrategytogeneratetests.
from labeled human-generated interaction traces and uses
themodeltogetherwithasetofheuristicrulestoguidethe
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
explorationofnewapps.Theresultofdeeplearningisonly
usedtoselectoneeventfromtheunexploredeventsonthe This research is supported in part by the NSF grant CCF-
currentpage.Ifalleventsonthecurrentpageareexplored, 1652149.
theheuristicruleswillbeusedtocomputetheshortestpath
in a graph to find a page with unexplored events. In con- REFERENCES
trast,DinoDroiddoesnotneedtomanuallybuild/labelthe
[1] “Googleplaydata,”https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google Play.
trainingsetoruseanypre-definedsearchstrategiesorrules
[2] S. R. Choudhary, A. Gorla, and A. Orso, “Automated test input
to guide testing. AppFlow [66] generates GUI tests from
generation for android: Are we there yet?” in Proceedings of the
high-level, manually written test cases. It leverages ma- International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE),
chine learning to match screens and widgets to individual 2015,pp.429–440.
[3] “Ui/application exerciser monkey,” https://developer.android
tests. Juha Eskonen et al. [67] employs deep reinforcement
.com/studio/test/monkey.html.
learning to perform UI testing for web applications. This [4] A. Machiry, R. Tahiliani, and M. Naik, “Dynodroid: An input
workspecificallyfocusesontheimagefeatureanddoesnot generation system for android apps,” in Proceedings of the Joint
MeetingonFoundationsofSoftwareEngineering,2013,pp.224–234.
perform an an empirical study to assess its performance.
[5] D. Amalfitano, A. R. Fasolino, P. Tramontana, S. De Carmine,
Incontrast,DinoDroid’sfeaturemergingcomponentisable
and A. M. Memon, “Using gui ripping for automated testing of
to handle multiple complex features. DinoDroid targets at androidapplications,”inProceedingsoftheInternationalConference
Androidappsandperformsanextensiveempiricalstudy. onAutomatedSoftwareEngineering,2012,pp.258–261.
[6] D.Amalfitano,A.R.Fasolino,P.Tramontana,B.D.Ta,andA.M.
The techniques in the second category do not have ex-
Memon,“Mobiguitar:Automatedmodel-basedtestingofmobile
plicittrainingprocess[18],[16],[19],[20],[11],[68].Instead, apps,”IEEEsoftware,vol.32,no.5,pp.53–59,2015.
they use Q-learning to guide the exploration of individ- [7] T.AzimandI.Neamtiu,“Targetedanddepth-firstexplorationfor
ual apps, where each app generates a unique behavior systematictestingofandroidapps,”inAcmSigplanNotices,2013,
pp.641–660.
model. These techniques share the same limitations with
[8] T. Su, G. Meng, Y. Chen, K. Wu, W. Yang, Y. Yao, G. Pu, Y. Liu,
Q-learning, where complex features cannot be maintained andZ.Su,“Guided,stochasticmodel-basedguitestingofandroid
intheQ-table.Forexample,QDROID[16],DRIFT[69],and apps,”inProceedingsoftheJointMeetingonFoundationsofSoftware
Engineering,2017,pp.245–256.
ARES [70] design the deep neural network agents to guide
[9] S.ChibandE.Greenberg,“Understandingthemetropolis-hastings
the exploration of Android apps. However, like QBE, the algorithm,” The american statistician, vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 327–335,
widgets are abstracted into several categories or boolean 1995.
values. The abstraction of the states and actions may cause [10] Y.Koroglu,A.Sen,O.Muslu,Y.Mete,C.Ulker,T.Tanriverdi,and
Y.Donmez,“QBE:Qlearning-basedexplorationofandroidappli-
the loss of information in individual widgets. Wuji [71]
cations,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on Software
combines reinforcement learning with evolutionary algo- Testing,VerificationandValidation(ICST),2018,pp.105–115.
rithmstotestAndroidgameapps.Itdesignsauniquestate [11] M.Pan,A.Huang,G.Wang,T.Zhang,andX.Li,“Reinforcement
learning based curiosity-driven testing of android applications,”
vectorforeachgameusedasthepositionoftheplayerchar-
inProceedingsoftheInternationalSymposiumonSoftwareTestingand
acter or the health points. Therefore, Wuji can not transfer Analysis,2020,pp.153–164.
the learned knowledge to new apps. Q-testing [11]’s main [12] Y.Li,Z.Yang,Y.Guo,andX.Chen,“Humanoid:adeeplearning-
contribution is the design of a reward function to improve based approach to automated black-box android app testing,”
inProceedingsoftheInternationalConferenceonAutomatedSoftware
the performance of Q-testing by calculating the difference
Engineering(ASE),2019,pp.1070–1073.
between the current state and the recorded states. Our [13] C.Degott,N.P.BorgesJr,andA.Zeller,“Learninguserinterface
work is orthogonal to Q-testing and one can improve the elementinteractions,”inProceedingsoftheInternationalSymposium
onSoftwareTestingandAnalysis,2019,pp.296–306.
performance of DinoDroid by utilizing Q-testing’s reward
[14] M.M.Hing,A.vanHarten,andP.Schuur,“Reinforcementlearn-
function.
ing versus heuristics for order acceptance on a single resource,”
JournalofHeuristics,vol.13,no.2,pp.167–187,2007.
8 CONCLUSIONS [15] N.P.Borges,M.Go´mez,andA.Zeller,“Guidingapptestingwith
minedinteractionmodels,”inProceedingsoftheInternationalCon-
We have presented DinoDroid, an automated approach ference on Mobile Software Engineering and Systems (MOBILESoft).
to test Android application. It is a deep Q-learning-based IEEE,2018,pp.133–143.
[16] T. A. T. Vuong and S. Takada, “Semantic analysis for deep q-
approach, which can learn how to test android application
networkinandroidguitesting.”inSEKE,2019,pp.123–170.
rather than depending on heuristic rules. DinoDroid can [17] C. Jin, Z. Allen-Zhu, S. Bubeck, and M. I. Jordan, “Is q-learning
take more complex features than existing learning-based provablyefficient?”arXivpreprintarXiv:1807.03765,2018.
[18] D.Adamo,M.K.Khan,S.Koppula,andR.Bryce,“Reinforcement
methods as the input by using a Deep Q learning-based
learningforandroidguitesting,”inProceedingsoftheInternational
structure. With these features, DinoDroid can process com-
WorkshoponAutomatingTESTCaseDesign,Selection,andEvaluation,
plexfeaturesonthepagesofanapp.Basedonthesecomplex 2018,pp.2–8.

## Page 13

13
[19] T. A. T. Vuong and S. Takada, “A reinforcement learning based [46] M. N. Y. Ali, M. G. Sarowar, M. L. Rahman, J. Chaki, N. Dey,
approach to automated testing of android applications,” in Pro- andJ.M.R.Tavares,“Adamdeeplearningwithsomforhuman
ceedings of the International Workshop on Automating TEST Case sentimentclassification,”InternationalJournalofAmbientComputing
Design,Selection,andEvaluation,2018,pp.31–37. andIntelligence,vol.10,no.3,pp.92–116,2019.
[20] L.Mariani,M.Pezze,O.Riganelli,andM.Santoro,“Autoblacktest: [47] K.Gregor,I.Danihelka,A.Graves,D.Rezende,andD.Wierstra,
Automatic black-box testing of interactive applications,” in Pro- “Draw: A recurrent neural network for image generation,” in
ceedingsoftheInternationalConferenceonSoftwareTesting,Verification ProceedingsoftheInternationalConferenceonMachineLearning,2015,
andValidation,2012,pp.81–90. pp.1462–1471.
[21] H.Larochelle,Y.Bengio,J.Louradour,andP.Lamblin,“Exploring [48] A. D. Tijsma, M. M. Drugan, and M. A. Wiering, “Comparing
strategies for training deep neural networks.” Journal of machine explorationstrategiesforq-learninginrandomstochasticmazes,”
learningresearch,vol.10,no.1,2009. inProceedingsoftheSymposiumSeriesonComputationalIntelligence
[22] “Dinodroid,”https://github.com/softwareTesting123/DinoDroid. (SSCI),2016,pp.1–8.
[23] “lockpatterngenerator,” https://github.com/dharmik/lockpatt [49] M.TokicandG.Palm,“Value-differencebasedexploration:adap-
erngenerator. tivecontrolbetweenepsilon-greedyandsoftmax,”inProceedings
[24] C.J.WatkinsandP.Dayan,“Q-learning,”Machinelearning,vol.8, oftheAnnualConferenceonArtificialIntelligence,2011,pp.335–346.
no.3-4,pp.279–292,1992. [50] K. Mao, M. Harman, and Y. Jia, “Sapienz: Multi-objective au-
[25] R. Bellman, “On the theory of dynamic programming,” National tomated testing for android applications,” in Proceedings of the
AcademyofSciencesoftheUnitedStatesofAmerica,vol.38,no.8,p. InternationalSymposiumonSoftwareTestingandAnalysis,2016,pp.
716,1952. 94–105.
[26] V.Mnih,K.Kavukcuoglu,D.Silver,A.A.Rusu,J.Veness,M.G. [51] “Androtest data set,” http://bear.cc.gatech.edu/ shauvik/an-
Bellemare,A.Graves,M.Riedmiller,A.K.Fidjeland,G.Ostrovski drotest/.
etal.,“Human-levelcontrolthroughdeepreinforcementlearning,” [52] “Androguard,”https://github.com/androguard/androguard.
nature,vol.518,no.7540,pp.529–533,2015. [53] “Emma,”http://emma.sourceforge.net/.
[27] K. Arulkumaran, M. P. Deisenroth, M. Brundage, and A. A. [54] “Keras,”https://keras.io/.
Bharath, “Deep reinforcement learning: A brief survey,” IEEE [55] “nectroid,”https://github.com/cknave/nectroid.
SignalProcessingMagazine,vol.34,no.6,pp.26–38,2017. [56] T.Su,J.Wang,andZ.Su,“Benchmarkingautomatedguitesting
[28] “Conv1d layer,” https://keras.io/api/layers/convolution for android against real-world bugs,” in Proceedings of the 29th
layers/convolution1d. ACMJointMeetingonEuropeanSoftwareEngineeringConferenceand
[29] P.Dayan,“Improvinggeneralizationfortemporaldifferencelearn- SymposiumontheFoundationsofSoftwareEngineering,2021,pp.119–
ing: The successor representation,” Neural Computation, vol. 5, 130.
no.4,pp.613–624,1993. [57] K.Moran,M.Linares-Va´squez,C.Bernal-Ca´rdenas,C.Vendome,
[30] O.Levy,Y.Goldberg,andI.Dagan,“Improvingdistributionalsim- andD.Poshyvanyk,“Automaticallydiscovering,reportingandre-
ilaritywithlessonslearnedfromwordembeddings,”Transactions producingandroidapplicationcrashes,”in2016IEEEinternational
oftheAssociationforComputationalLinguistics,vol.3,pp.211–225, conferenceonsoftwaretesting,verificationandvalidation(icst). IEEE,
2015. 2016,pp.33–44.
[31] “word2vec,”https://github.com/dav/word2vec. [58] Z. Dong, M. Bohme, L. Cojocaru, and A. Roychoudhury, “Time-
[32] J.Pennington,R.Socher,andC.D.Manning,“Glove:Globalvec- travel testing of android apps,” in Proceedings of the International
torsforwordrepresentation,”inProceedingsofthe2014conference ConferenceonSoftwareEngineering. IEEE,2020,pp.481–492.
onempiricalmethodsinnaturallanguageprocessing(EMNLP),2014, [59] T.Gu,C.Cao,T.Liu,C.Sun,J.Deng,X.Ma,andJ.Lu¨,“Aimdroid:
pp.1532–1543. Activity-insulated multi-level automated testing for android ap-
[33] Y.-M.BaekandD.-H.Bae,“Automatedmodel-basedandroidgui plications,”inProceedingsoftheInternationalConferenceonSoftware
testingusingmulti-levelguicomparisoncriteria,”inProceedingsof MaintenanceandEvolution(ICSME),2017,pp.103–114.
theInternationalConferenceonAutomatedSoftwareEngineering,2016, [60] J.Yan,L.Pan,Y.Li,J.Yan,andJ.Zhang,“Land:auser-friendlyand
pp.238–249. customizabletestgenerationtoolforandroidapps,”inProceedings
[34] W.Choi,G.Necula,andK.Sen,“Guidedguitestingofandroid oftheInternationalSymposiumonSoftwareTestingandAnalysis,2018,
apps with minimal restart and approximate learning,” in Acm pp.360–363.
SigplanNotices. ACM,2013,pp.623–640. [61] J. Yan, T. Wu, J. Yan, and J. Zhang, “Widget-sensitive and back-
[35] A.Memon,I.Banerjee,andA.Nagarajan,“Guiripping:Reverse stack-awareguiexplorationfortestingandroidapps,”inProceed-
engineeringofgraphicaluserinterfacesfortesting,”inProceedings ingsoftheInternationalConferenceonSoftwareQuality,Reliabilityand
oftheWorkingConferenceonReverseEngineering,2003,pp.260–269. Security(QRS),2017,pp.42–53.
[36] M. Pradel, P. Schuh, G. Necula, and K. Sen, “Eventbreak: Ana- [62] W.Yang,M.R.Prasad,andT.Xie,“Agrey-boxapproachforau-
lyzingtheresponsivenessofuserinterfacesthroughperformance- tomatedgui-modelgenerationofmobileapplications,”inInterna-
guided test generation,” ACM SIGPLAN Notices, vol. 49, no. 10, tionalConferenceonFundamentalApproachestoSoftwareEngineering,
pp.33–47,2014. 2013,pp.250–265.
[37] “Androidactivity,”https://developer.android.com/reference/and [63] R. Mahmood, N. Mirzaei, and S. Malek, “Evodroid: Segmented
roid/app/Activity. evolutionarytestingofandroidapps,”inProceedingsoftheInterna-
[38] “Uiautomator,”https://developer.android.com/training/testing tionalSymposiumonFoundationsofSoftwareEngineering,2014,pp.
/ui-automator. 599–609.
[39] L. Wan, M. Zeiler, S. Zhang, Y. Le Cun, and R. Fergus, “Regu- [64] X. Gao, S. H. Tan, Z. Dong, and A. Roychoudhury, “Android
larizationofneuralnetworksusingdropconnect,”inInternational testing via synthetic symbolic execution,” in Proceedings of the
conferenceonmachinelearning. PMLR,2013,pp.1058–1066. International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE),
[40] Y. Kim, “Convolutional neural networks for sentence classifica- 2018,pp.419–429.
tion,”arXivpreprintarXiv:1408.5882,2014. [65] J.-W.Lin,R.Jabbarvand,andS.Malek,“Testtransferacrossmobile
[41] D.Justus,J.Brennan,S.Bonner,andA.S.McGough,“Predicting appsthroughsemanticmapping,”inProceedingsoftheInternational
the computational cost of deep learning models,” in 2018 IEEE ConferenceonAutomatedSoftwareEngineering(ASE),2019,pp.42–
International Conference on Big Data (Big Data). IEEE, 2018, pp. 53.
3873–3882. [66] G. Hu, L. Zhu, and J. Yang, “Appflow: using machine learning
[42] J.Wang,Y.Yang,J.Mao,Z.Huang,C.Huang,andW.Xu,“Cnn- tosynthesizerobust,reusableuitests,”inProceedingsoftheJoint
rnn: A unified framework for multi-label image classification,” MeetingonEuropeanSoftwareEngineeringConferenceandSymposium
inProceedingsoftheIEEEconferenceoncomputervisionandpattern ontheFoundationsofSoftwareEngineering,2018,pp.269–282.
recognition,2016,pp.2285–2294. [67] J. Eskonen, J. Kahles, and J. Reijonen, “Automating gui testing
[43] Q.Gao,S.Lim,andX.Jia,“Hyperspectralimageclassificationus- with image-based deep reinforcement learning,” in Proceedings
ingconvolutionalneuralnetworksandmultiplefeaturelearning,” of the International Conference on Autonomic Computing and Self-
RemoteSensing,vol.10,no.2,p.299,2018. OrganizingSystems. IEEE,2020,pp.160–167.
[44] “Denselayer,”https://keras.io/api/layers/core layers/dense/. [68] Y. Koroglu and A. Sen, “Functional test generation from ui test
[45] “adam,”https://keras.io/api/optimizers/adam/. scenariosusingreinforcementlearningforandroidapplications,”
SoftwareTesting,VerificationandReliability,vol.31,no.3,p.e1752,
2021.

## Page 14

14
[69] L.Harries, R.S. Clarke,T. Chapman,S. V.Nallamalli, L.Ozgur, preprintarXiv:2101.02636,2021.
S. Jain, A. Leung, S. Lim, A. Dietrich, J. M. Herna´ndez-Lobato [71] Y. Zheng, X. Xie, T. Su, L. Ma, J. Hao, Z. Meng, Y. Liu, R. Shen,
etal.,“Drift:Deepreinforcementlearningforfunctionalsoftware Y.Chen,andC.Fan,“Wuji:Automaticonlinecombatgametesting
testing,”arXivpreprintarXiv:2007.08220,2020. using evolutionary deep reinforcement learning,” in Proceedings
[70] A.Romdhana,A.Merlo,M.Ceccato,andP.Tonella,“Deeprein- of the International Conference on Automated Software Engineering
forcementlearningforblack-boxtestingofandroidapps,”arXiv (ASE),2019,pp.772–784.

