# Improving-Mobile-User-Interface-Testing-With-Model-Driven-3Plaop06Eh

**Source:** improving-mobile-user-interface-testing-with-model-driven-3plaop06eh.pdf  
**Converted:** 2026-01-26 09:23:09

---

## Page 1

Improving Mobile User Interface Testing with
Model Driven Monkey Search
Jordan Doyle∗, Takfarinas Saber∗, Paolo Arcaini†, and Anthony Ventresque∗
∗Lero@UCD, School of Computer Science, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland
Email: jordan.doyle@ucdconnect.ie, {takfarinas.saber, anthony.ventresque}@ucd.ie
†National Institute of Informatics, Tokyo, Japan
Email: arcaini@nii.ac.jp
Abstract—Testingmobileapplicationsoftenreliesontools,such nature of the platform that presents the biggest challenge [7].
as Exerciser Monkey for Android systems, that simulate user A user’s interaction with an application is highly reliant on
input. Exerciser Monkey, for example, generates random events
their environment. Although mobile interfaces are structured,
(e.g., touches, gestures, navigational keys) that give developers a
callbackmethodsareinvokedbytheAndroidframeworkbased
sense of what their application will do when deployed on real
mobile phones with real users interacting with it. These tools, on the current system state – which makes the creation of a
however,havenoknowledgeoftheunderlyingapplications’struc- representation for Android’s applications difficult e.g. Control
tures and only interact with them randomly or in a predefined Flow Graphs or Abstract Syntax Trees.
manner(e.g.,ifdevelopersdesignedscenarios,alabour-intensive
Many different methods of automatic testing have emerged
task) – making them slow and poor at finding bugs.
over the years to tackle the issues related to the interactive
In this paper, we propose a novel control flow structure able
to represent the code of Android applications, including all the natureofAndroid.Someofthesemethodsincludeautomation
interactive elements. We show that our structure can increase frameworks [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], which provide
the effectiveness (higher coverage) and efficiency (removing API’s for testers to write interactions as a script, or record
duplicate/redundant tests) of the Exerciser Monkey by giving it
and replay tools [14], [15], [16], [17] that allow developers
knowledge of the test environment. We compare the interface
to record an interaction to be replayed later. While these
coverage achieved by the Exerciser Monkey with our new
Monkey++usingadepthfirstsearchofourcontrolflowstructure methods have become popular in the Android community
and show that while the random nature of Exerciser Monkey and a standard for Android testing, they are, unfortunately,
creates slow test suites of poor coverage, the test suite created highly manual and not efficient for large scale development.
by a depth first search is one order of magnitude faster and
The majority of research toward Android testing has been
achievesfullcoverageoftheuserinteractionelements.Webelieve
devoted to generating user input automatically by means of
this research will lead to a more effective and efficient Exerciser
Monkey, as well as better targeted search based techniques for random [18], [19], systematic [20], [21], [22], or model-
automated Android testing. based [23], [24], [25] input generation, removing the manual
labour usually required. The most popular and widely used
Keywords-Android, Control Flow Graph, Exerciser Monkey,
Test Generation automatedframeworkhasbeenExerciserMonkey(alsoknown
as Monkey) [18], which is packaged with the Android SDK.
I. INTRODUCTION In this paper, we present a novel control flow structure able
torepresentthecodeofAndroidapplications,includingallthe
Android has become the leading mobile operating system
interactive elements. We show that the (control flow) graph
with 72.48% market share in December of 2020 [1]. The
generated by our solution can direct/support the execution
numberofmobileappdownloadseachyearhasalsoincreased
of a tool like Monkey (We call our extension of Monkey
steadily. In 2019, there were 204 billion app downloads, and
Monkey++) and address two of the main challenges in testing
$120 billion in revenue generated [2]. The validation of app
Android apps using the framework: removing duplicate and
quality is now essential, for both keeping users as well as
redundantinteractions(i.e.,efficiency,usinglessresources)by
gainingnewones,asappqualityisanimportantfactorofuser
trackingareasalreadyexploredbythetestsuite;andincreasing
retention [3]. Ensuring app quality (mostly through testing)
test coverage (i.e., its effectiveness) by targeting unexplored
is a labour and skill-intensive activity that is often done
areas of the application.
manually [4], [5] (e.g., developers writing test scenarios) but
Using our graph, we show the coverage achieved by both
would benefit from automatic tools [6].
Monkey, the de facto standard automatic testing tool, and
However, despite the massive growth in research for auto-
our new Monkey++ using a depth first search. Using 3 open
matedtestingtechniques,ithasbeendifficulttocreatearobust
source Android applications, we found that although Monkey
and efficient solution. It is the interactive and event-driven
achievesatleastanaverageof85%interfacecoverage,ittakes
Thisworkwassupported,inpart,bytheScienceFoundationIrelandgrants 500 interaction attempts to achieve, with only an average of
13/RC/2094 P2and17/RC-PhD/3485.PaoloArcainiissupportedbyERATO
8%actuallyinteractingwiththeapplication.Whiletherandom
HASUO Metamathematics for Systems Design Project (No. JPMJER1603),
JST;FundingReferencenumber:10.13039/501100009024ERATO. natureofMonkeycreatesslowtestsuitesofpoorcoverage,our

## Page 2

search with Monkey++ is one order of magnitude faster and B. Automated Input Generators
achieves full interface coverage. This shows that even though
The most active area in mobile software testing is currently
Monkey can be effective in discovering bugs, it can be made
automated input generation. Three of the most used methods
more efficient by integrating knowledge of the application
arerandom,systematic,andmodel-basedinputgeneration[6],
structure enabling better test generation algorithms.
[27].
This paper starts by discussing the related work in the area
Usingrandominputfortestinganapplication’sinterfaceis
ofAndroidTestinginSectionII.SectionIIIprovidesaformal
the simplest of methods but they are generally very inefficient
definition and implementation of our control flow graph,
andleadtoahighnumberofredundantandrepetitiveinterac-
including its structure, content, and functionality. Section IV
tions. An example of this is Monkey, a program that runs on
defines the coverage metric we use to evaluate both Monkey
youremulatorordeviceandgeneratespseudo-randomstreams
and our new Monkey++. Section V describes our Monkey++
ofusereventssuchasclicks,touches,orgestures,aswellasa
searchmethod.SectionVIdiscussestheresultsobtainedfrom
number of system-level events [18]. In practice, Monkey does
theMonkey’srandomsearchandourMonkey++DFS.Finally,
not support keyboard input or system notifications, and most
Section VII concludes the paper.
oftherandominputsappliedtotheinterfacedonothingwithin
II. RELATEDWORK the application. Dynodroid, another well-known random input
generatortriestoovercomethisissuebyapplyingaFrequency
Overtheyearsmanytoolsandframeworkshaveemergedto
Strategy and Biased-Random Strategy, to increase the effi-
try improve Android interactive testing and 3 main categories
ciency of the inputs it selects. The frequency strategy uses
have formed: automation frameworks and APIs, record and
theinputsthataremostfrequentlyusedandthebiased-random
replay tools, and automated input generation tools [6], [26].
strategyusestheinputsthatarerelevantinmostcontexts[19].
While they do succeed in testing Android applications to
Unlike Monkey, Dynodroid also supports keyboard input and
different degrees, they all have drawbacks preventing them
systemnotifications,however,thisispossiblyitsdownfall.For
from solving the entire problem. It is important to point
instance,inordertoprovidesystemevents,Dynodroidneeded
out that the set of frameworks discussed in this paper is
to instrument the Android framework [19] and in doing this
not exhaustive, but represents the most well-known Android
they made Dynodroid hard to update and maintain which has
testing frameworks and tools.
led to the framework becoming outdated and unused.
A. Automation Frameworks and API’s DespiteDynodroidperformingbetterthanMonkey,showing
an increased application coverage and less interaction redun-
Frameworks and API’s such as Monkey Runner [8], An-
dancy, Monkey has remained one of the most popular frame-
droid View Client [9], UI Automator [10] as well as many
works available for automated interface testing. This could
others[11],[12],[13],allowdeveloperstocreatetestingscripts
be attributed to Monkey being maintained and packaged as
that run interactive events through the Android emulator.
partoftheAndroidframeworkanditssimpleimplementation,
These tools allow users to test their application using the user
resulting in the majority of publishers comparing their results
interface in a similar manner to unit testing, which provides
with results from Monkey.
functionaltestingofapplicationcodeaswellastestingruntime
behaviour of the activity lifecycle and user input callback Systematic input involves dynamically analysing the inter-
methods. The developer is required to code an interaction face of an application and generating appropriate test inputs
withthedeviceandthentestwhethertheresultingoutcomeis as they are found. This method provides effective testing
correct,byeitherimagecomparison,viewattributecomparison of an application without prior knowledge of the interface
or by simply monitoring the results of the test manually. This structure or the underlying code. A good example of this
type of testing is useful for basic functional testing during technique is Android Ripper that maintains a state machine
the development process as the testing environment is highly model of the GUI, called a GUI Tree. The GUI Tree model
controlled and stable. However, these tools require hours of containsthesetofGUIstatesandstatetransitionsencountered
manualscriptingtobemaintainedastheapplicationundertest during the ripping process [22]. Similar to Android Ripper,
(AUT)develops,andscriptsarenotguaranteedtoworkonall tools such as Automatic Android App Explorer (A3E) and
devices, due to Android device fragmentation [6]. Record and Crash Scope use the same systematic approach to exploring
replay tools [14], [15], [16], [17] such as Mosaic or Espresso an application interface, however, they also use static analysis
Recorder provide the same features as automation API’s but to determine activity or method interactions and contextual
they eliminate the need for hours of scripting. Instead of features respectively [20], [21].
scriptinginteractionswithanAndroidapplication,adeveloper Asystematicapproachtoautomatedinputgenerationshows
simply uses their application on an emulator or device and promise with Android Ripper, A3E and CrashScope showing
the interactions are recorded. These interactions can then be varying degrees of improvement over Monkey in areas such
replayed whenever the developer needs them. This method as coverage, input redundancy and bug detection [27], [22],
provides a quicker way of creating tests but does not solve [20],[21],however,asystematicapproachcanneverguarantee
the core problems. The recordings are still time consuming complete coverage of the application.
and reliant on the device used to create them. Model-based testing requires a formal model of the appli-

## Page 3

cation, such as an event flow graph, control flow graph, finite no explicit call within the application code. Therefore, an
statemachine,etc.Oncethemodelhasbeenmade,itisusedto additional primitive runtime model was created to track and
generate a test suite of device inputs. For example, Stoat [24] enforce the proper movement between these methods during
andMobiGuitar[25]useafinitestatemachine(FSM)tomodel a search. This model is discussed in Section V.
theAUT.Stoatusesdynamicanalysis,enhancedbyaweighted Figure1showsanexampleofacontrolflowstructurerepre-
UIexplorationstrategyandstaticanalysis,toexploretheapp’s senting an Android application: its syntax (methods and state-
behaviours and construct a stochastic FSM [24]. MobiGuitar ments) and the user interactions it contains. We can see from
ontheotherhand,usesanenhancedversionofAndroidRipper this example two interface views, ’StartB’ and ’SayHello’,
and dynamically traverses the application in a breadth first connected to their respective method listeners ’startActivityB’
fashion to generate its FSM [25]. and’sayHello’.Thestatementswithinthesemethodsarelinked
Model-basedapproachestoautomatedAndroidtestinghold by edges in their execution order. Method call edges are
up well against the other testing methods and tools we have also shown, for instance the statement ’startActivity(intent)’
discussed but have failed to generate a solid user base. Stoat calls the subsequent lifecycle methods. Some of the edges
sets itself apart with its method of using system events within are shown as a dashed arrow. These edges are not contained
tests. Instead of trying to model system events, it randomly in our graph, instead they are determined by the primitive
injects various system-level events into its UI tests [24]. This runtime model mentioned above. It decides which edge to
simulates the random nature of receiving notifications and followduringasearchbasedonthestatusofthecalledactivity.
state changes in a real environment. However, Stoat is also In order to simplify our example, we include statement nodes
ineffectivewithregulargestures(e.g.,PinchZoom,Move)and for the ’ActivityB onResume()’ lifecycle method only.
specific input data formats [24], while MobiGuitar’s reliance
on Android Ripper caused it to have the same pitfalls.
III. CONTROLFLOWSTRUCTURE
In this section we define the data structure (control flow
graph) we extract from Android applications and how it is
implemented.
A. Formal Definition
Definition 1 (Control Flow Structure): A Control Flow
Structure is a directed graph G = (V,E) where V = {v ,
1
..., v }, n ∈ N, is a set of vertices and E = {e ,...,e },
n 1 m
m ∈ N, is a set of arcs (directed edges), where e = (v ,v ) Fig. 1: Control flow structure representing a small Android
i j k
application. User interface (e.g., Buttons) are red, callback
with v ,v ∈V.
j k
methods are orange, lifecycle methods are blue, standard
Our control flow graph G is composed of three types of methods are green, and statements are yellow.
vertices:V =V ∪V ∪V ,thatrepresentthethreeimportant
s m ui
elements of a mobile application:
• V s represents the statement vertices. While testing, we B. Implementation
want to focus on the code written for the application Traditional control flow analysis cannot be directly applied
rather than system or library code, so we exclude them to Android applications because they are framework based
fromourstatementset.Statementsplayanimportantrole and event-driven. For this reason we used our own algorithms
by revealing application logic, internal method calls and along with existing frameworks (i.e., Soot and FlowDroid) to
the overall control flow of the application. statically analyse the application.
• V m represents the method vertices and similarly only 1) Soot: started off as a Java optimization framework,
comprises methods developed for the application. The by now, researchers and practitioners use Soot to analyse,
method vertices represent the entry points to a method instrument, optimize and visualize Java and Android appli-
and lead to the statement vertices within. These vertices cations. Soot’s primary functionality is inter-procedural and
canbefurthersplitintothreetypes:theAndroidlife-cycle intra-procedural analysis using an intermediate representation.
methods, the user input callback methods, and standard It takes as input Java source and byte-code, or more recently
Java methods. Android byte-code, and transforms it into an intermediary
• V ui representstheinterfacevertices,indicatinguserinput representation for easier analysis [28].
locations within the graph. Soot’s primary intermediate representation is Jimple—a
Not all control flow edges can be included in our graph as typed three address code [28]. The creation of Jimple was
they are runtime dependent. For example, Activity lifecycle motivated by the difficulty of directly analysing Java byte-
methods are called by the Android framework based on the code: although it is possible to construct a control-flow graph
current state of the system or application, meaning they have for Java byte-code, the implicit stack masks the flow of data,

## Page 4

making it difficult to analyse [29]. Using Jimple makes the • Statement vertices are gathered from the UnitGraph
analysis easy due to its low complexity. objects created by Soot for each method in the analysed
Our motivation for choosing Soot is due to the framework application. Each UnitGraph contains a unit chain detail-
and the Jimple intermediate representation being the most ing all the Jimple statements and their execution order
adopted support tool and format respectively [30], as well as within the method. We add each Jimple statement in the
the internal objects that Soot provides to represent the code unit chain to our graph, while also checking for method
and Soot’s inter-procedural and intra-procedural analysis. callswithinthestatementandcreatingtherelevantedges.
However, it does have its drawbacks: although Soot has • Interfacecontrolsandcallbackmethodsareidentifiedby
the ability to analyse Android byte-code, it does not have FlowDroid and included in the graph. However, Flow-
knowledge of the activity lifecycle and therefore cannot get Droid fails to provide a link between the individual
thebodyoflifecyclemethods.Also,Androidapplicationshave controls and their associated callback method. This is
multipleentrypointsaspartofthelifecyclemodel,thismeans mademorechallengingbymostcallbackmethodshaving
that Soot cannot create a call graph as it has no knowledge the same name when defined within the Java code, e.g.,
of where to enter the application. To solve this issue we use onClick(). Currently we instrument the AUT so that the
FlowDroid. control ID for each callback method can be found in the
2) FlowDroid: is the first fully context-, field-, object- Jimple statements. Finding better methods of retrieving
and flow-sensitive taint analysis which considers the Android the interface data is part of future work.
application lifecycle, while also featuring a novel, particularly
As mentioned in Section III-A, not all control flow edges
precise variant of an on-demand alias analysis [31]. It was
can be determined through static analysis, as they are runtime
designed to analyse applications, and alert users of malicious
dependent, and therefore cannot be included in the graph.
data flows, or as a malware detection tool which could
For example, activity lifecycle methods are called by the
determine if a leak was a policy violation.
Android framework based on the current state of the system
Despite its main purpose, FlowDroid’s knowledge of the
or application, meaning they have no explicit call within the
activity lifecycle is why it became applicable to this research.
application code. This causes disconnected clusters to form
As mentioned, Android applications do not have a main
in the graph. The control flow to and from these clusters is
method, they consist of entry points that are called by the
determined at runtime by the Android framework, or by our
Android framework when needed. These entry points can be
runtime model (see Section V) during a search.
input callback methods, defined to respond to a user input; or
Figure 2 shows the control flow structure generated for
lifecycle methods, defined by the developer to respond to a
one of our AUT, Activity Lifecycle. The visualisation of the
system event, for example, launching a new activity.
graphwasgeneratedusingtheDOTvisualisationlanguageand
FlowDroid adds the ability for Soot to retrieve the body
Gephi.
of lifecycle methods and include them in its analysis. Addi-
tionally, it allows Soot to create a call graph by generating
a dummy main method using Heros, an IFDS/IDE solver
framework which is not path sensitive, but instead joins anal-
ysis results immediately at any control flow merge point [31].
This main method contains every order of individual lifecycle
and callback components without traversing all the individual
paths.
3) The control flow structure: is mostly populated using
Soot and FlowDroid’s static analysis. However, even though
the structures provided by these frameworks are comprehen-
sive and invaluable, they are also disconnected and do not
allow for easy traversal. For this reason, we use the data they
providetopopulateourowngraphimplementation,consisting
of a set of vertex and edge objects. An edge object consists
Fig. 2: Control flow structure for Activity Lifecycle applica-
of a source and target vertex, while a vertex object contains
tion. User interface (e.g., Buttons) are red, callback methods
several attributes including but not limited to a unique ID, a
are orange, lifecycle methods are blue, standard methods are
label, and a type. As discussed in Section III-A our control
green, and statements are yellow.
flow structure consists of 3 types of vertices.
• Method vertices are retrieved from FlowDroid’s call
graph.Wecheckeachmethodinthecallgraphtofurther
IV. COVERAGEMETRICSBASEDONOURCONTROLFLOW
classify them as activity lifecycle, input callback, or
standard Java methods as well as filtering methods from Once we have a representation of the Android app (i.e., the
theJavaandAndroidSDK,beforeaddingthemandtheir graph G we have proposed in Section III), we can look at the
associated call edges to our graph. code coverage of tests generated by different test generation

## Page 5

techniques, i.e., how much of the graph is covered by the test
suites generated by a given technique.
A. Formal Definitions
In the current paper, we are interested in the interactive
elements (e.g., buttons) of the application. The focus on
interactive elements (i.e., v ∈V in our graph) tells us how
j ui
much of what the users can do is tested. Further research
will involve using the methods V and statements V to
m s Fig. 3: Interaction Scenario: When “SayHi” is touched we
enhanceoursearchtotargetspecificfeatureslikelytouncover
achieve33%interfacecoveragebut,toachieve100%interface
application bugs.
coverage, we must touch “StartB” for the search to reach
Let’s first introduce the notion of test and test generation
“SayBye”.
tool.
Definition 2 (Test and test suite): Let us assume a mobile
application A and the graph representing it G = (V,E). A on the device during a test. A sample of the output can be
test is a sequence of vertices t = [vt,vt,...,vt ] such that seen in Listing 1 showing the generated random interactions
1 2 m
(vt,vt ) ∈ E (for i = 1,...,m−1), and vt is an interface (instructions proceeded by ’:’) that were executed on an
i i+1 1
vertex (i.e., vt ∈ V ). A test suite is a set of tests TS = Android device.
1 ui
{t ,...,t }.
1 k
:Switch: #Intent;action=android.intent.action.MAIN;
Definition 3 (Test generation tool): Given a mobile appli- category=android.intent.category.LAUNCHER;
cation A and its graph G = (V,E), a test generation tool launchFlags=0x10200000;component=com.example.
android.lifecycle/.ActivityA;end
T can be seen as a function producing a test suite TS, i.e.,
// Allowing start of Intent { act=android.intent.
TS =T(A,G). action.MAIN cat=[android.intent.category.
LAUNCHER] cmp=com.example.android.lifecycle/.
As said before, in our work we are interested in measuring ActivityA } in package com.example.android.
howmuchoftheinterfaceoftheapplicationhasbeencovered. lifecycle
:Sending Touch (ACTION_DOWN): 0:(177.0,1604.0)
Therefore, we introduce the notion of interface coverage as
:Sending Touch (ACTION_UP): 0:(170.91504,1612.0048)
follows. // Allowing start of Intent { cmp=com.example.
android.lifecycle/.DialogActivity } in package
Definition 4 (Interface Coverage): Let us assume a mobile
com.example.android.lifecycle
applicationA,itsgraphG=(V,E)(withV =V ∪V ∪V ), :Sending Touch (ACTION_DOWN): 0:(114.0,1359.0)
s m ui
and a test generation tool T. The interface coverage achieved // activityResuming(com.example.android.lifecycle)
:Sending Touch (ACTION_UP): 0:(112.05528,1361.9899)
by the tool is defined as:
(cid:83) Listing 1: Sample of output given from Monkey
| {v ∈t|v ∈V }|
IC(T,A,G)= t∈TS ui
|V |
ui
Regularexpressionswereusedtosearchtheoutputtextand
where TS =T(A,G).
identify the type of events used during a test, as well as any
The interface coverage tells us how many of the interactive execution details that accompany them. For example, listing 2
elements in the whole application are explicitly being tested. shows the method used to extract the switch event given on
Figure 3 shows an interaction scenario (i.e., a test, see line 1 of listing 1.
definition 2), where green nodes identify covered vertices.
While interface elements are source vertices in the graph they def __extract_switch_event(self, line):
are not entry points within the Android application. We can
ptn=re.compile(r’:Switch:\s.+;component=([\w
./]+);end’)
see that when “SayHi” is touched we achieve 33% interface
component=regex_search(ptn, line, 1)
coveragebut,inordertoachieve100%interfacecoverage,we
must touch “StartB” in “ActivityA” (assuming “ActivityA” is next_line = self.__monkey_output.pop(0)
if any(word in next_line for word in ["Allowing"
an entry point class), so that the search can reach “SayBye” ,"Resuming","Rejecting"]) and component in
in “ActivityB”. next_line:
accepted=False if "Rejecting" in next_line
B. Coverage Evaluation else True
else:
In order to obtain the coverage achieved by the Monkey self.__monkey_output.insert(0, next_line)
test suite (sequence of interaction events), we needed to map
self.events.append(SwitchEvent(component,
it to our control flow graph. We first needed to extract it
accepted))
from Monkey’s output, which is limited to the command line.
We ran Monkey as a Python sub-process and captured the
Listing 2: Extracting switch events from Monkey output
output produced, which contains a stream of events executed

## Page 6

The Monkey output only provides screen coordinates for The stack determines which activity is currently on the
the interactions executed. In order to determine which of the screen. For example, when a new activity is launched, it gets
AUT’s interface control views were used during a test, we added to the top of the stack and takes over the screen,
needed to convert those coordinates into the control view at conversely if the back button is pressed, the top activity in
that location. UI Automator [10], an automation framework, the stack is removed and the previous one takes its place.
has a dump feature that provides a structured layout of views The lifecycle status of each activity determines which life-
currently on the screen, including each views ID, screen cycle methods need to be executed/searched when an activity
coordinates and whether it is clickable. Due to the dump is added, or removed from the top of the stack. For example,
feature only working on a screen’s current content, we were theonCreate()lifecyclemethodisonlyexecutedifaninstance
forced to re-execute the extracted events while collecting of the activity does not already exist in the stack, while the
details of the view found at the coordinates, if one existed. onResume() method is only executed if the activity is moved
Listing 3 shows a small portion of the code used to execute a to the top of the stack and was previously in a paused state.
touch event. Whenvisitingavertexinourgraphwecheckfor3features:
an activity launch statement; an activity finish statement; or
window = device.get_focused_window() a lifecycle method. If any of these features are found then
if action is not None:
the current state of the stack and the lifecycle status of each
view_id = device.find_view(action[’x’], action[’y’
]) activity will determine where the search continues. This can
be seen in listing 4 showing the main DFS search method.
if view_id is not None:
view={’id’:view_id,’activity’:window,’coords’:
action} protected void search(Vertex v) {
v.visit();
device.touch(action[’x’], action[’y’]) v.localVisit();
Listing 3: Running Touch Events on the Application for(DefaultEdge e : graph.outgoingEdgesOf(v)
) {
Vertex target = graph.getEdgeTarget(e);
if(!target.hasLocalVisit()) {
Once the Monkey test suite had been extracted, the search
search(target);
followed the graph to determine where in the application }
Monkey travelled and thus gave us the application coverage }
achieved.
switch(v.getType()) {
case statement:
V. MONKEY++:MONKEYDRIVENBYOURCONTROL checkForIntentAndStart(v);
FLOW checkForActivityFinish(v);
break;
Besides defining coverage metrics, our control flow could case lifecycle:
updateLifecycle(v);
also empower Monkey in its search for better test suites.
break;
Instead of randomly testing the application, we propose Mon- }
key++; a Monkey which is capable of leveraging our control }
flow using some graph navigation algorithm (e.g., Depth First
Listing 4: Search method for executing a DFS on a graph
Search,BreadthFirstSearch,ormoreelaboratetechniques)to
achieve a better coverage and with a smaller effort.
While searching the graph we enter and exit activities
A. Monkey++ with Depth First Search repeatedly, meaning certain lifecycle methods need to be
executed/searchedmultipletimestomaintaintheactivitystack
As a use-case, we developed Monkey++ which navigates
and lifecycle states. In a standard DFS, repetition is not
our control flow using the Depth First Search algorithm.
allowed as it leads to searching the same vertices infinitely.
Monkey++’s search begins with the default launch activity
We allow repetition in our overall search by creating smaller
within the AUT. Monkey++ gets all the interface vertices for
local searches that do not allow repetition. While each local
an activity and performs a search with one vertex as the root,
search cannot visit the same vertex more than once, the area
recursively finding new interface controls while it searches.
covered by each local search can overlap.
Whenalltheinterfaceverticesinthecurrentactivityhavebeen
explored, Monkey++ moves back one activity, the equivalent
VI. VALIDATION
to pressing the back button on a device.
Asmentionedpreviously,ourgraphdoesnotcontaincontrol The Monkey is capable of finding bugs within Android
flowedgesbetweenactivitylifecyclemethodsasthesecontrol applications but its performance can be greatly improved by
flows are determined by the Android framework based on the adding knowledge of the AUTs underlying structure. Lever-
currentsystemstateandtheapplicationstateitself.Oursearch aging knowledge of the internal structure using even a simple
determinestheseflowsatruntimebytrackingboththeactivity search method such as DFS can provide a more efficient
stack and lifecycle status of each activity. and effective Monkey. We demonstrate this by comparing the

## Page 7

TABLE I: Composition of AUTs 100
AppName No.Activities No.Controls JavaLOC 80
MoClock 3 10 378
ActivityLifecycle 4 13 558 60
VolumeControl 4 11 2254
40
20
coverage achieved by a standard Monkey random search with
a DFS using our (control flow) graph (Monkey++). 0
1 10 100 200 500
Monkey supports different interaction types, such as screen
No. Interactions
touches, key presses, swipe events, etc. In order to get the
bestpossiblecoveragefromMonkey,welimittheinteractions
to screen touches, as these are the only interactions that the
AUTs accept. For both Monkey and Monkey++ a test is a
sequence of interactions where an interaction is a click on the
screen. Monkey, with no knowledge of the interface, can not
be specific, so an interaction does not always touch an inter-
face control. Conversely, thanks to the (control flow) graph,
every Monkey++ interaction is specific to an interface control
(Similarly to getting interface controls views from Monkey
coordinates in Section IV-B, we can also get coordinates of
interface controls views from control IDs).
Stresstestingtheapplicationwasnottheobjective,therefore
we gave Monkey a 0.5 second throttle to allow plenty of
time between events. For both Monkey and Monkey++ our
validation centres around interface coverage.
Due to Monkey executing random events on the device,
all experiments are repeated 10 times executing 500 device
interactionseach.ResultsforMonkeyareaveragedoverthe10
obtainedtestsuites.However,usingtheDFSastheunderlying
graph navigation for Monkey++ makes it deterministic–thus
only requiring one run.
A. Applications Under Test
All the AUTs are free and open source applications taken
from Fossdroid [32]. The applications were chosen randomly
withthefollowingcriteriainmind:relativelysmallinsize;and
simple (i.e., no custom views, and minimal external libraries).
These criteria were included due to the immature nature of
our graph generation. Further development is needed to allow
for larger industrial applications. The chosen applications can
be seen in Table I.
B. Interface Coverage
Figures4a–4cshowtheinterfacecoverageachievedbyboth
Monkey and Monkey++ for the three AUTs.
Table II shows the coverage achieved by each AUT and the
number of interactions required to reach it.
Even though Monkey achieved an at least average of 85%
coverage, it required 500 interaction attempts to do it. We
expected with such a low number of interface controls, that
the Monkey would get 100% coverage in less attempts. Even
when 100% coverage was achieved, it required at least 180
interactions. Given an application with a more complex inter-
face structure, we would expect Monkey to achieve a much
lower coverage with the same number of attempts.
)%(
egarevoC
ecafretnI
Monkey++
MonkeyAvg
Monkeymax/min
(a) Mo Clock
100
80
60
40
20
0
1 10 100 200 500
No. Interactions
)%(
egarevoC
ecafretnI
Monkey++
MonkeyAvg
MonkeyMax/Min
(b) Activity Lifecycle
100
80
60
40
20
0
1 10 100 200 500
No. Interactions
)%(
egarevoC
ecafretnI
Monkey++
MonkeyAvg
Monkeymax/min
(c) Volume Control
Fig.4:InterfaceCoverage(over10runsofMonkeyand1run
of Monkey++). Note the log scale of x-axis.
TABLE II: Overview of Results – Interface coverage (No. of
interactions required to achieve it)
Monkey
AppName Monkey++ Average Min Max
MoClock 100%(19) 88%(500) 70%(500) 100%(300)
ActivityLifecycle 100%(17) 85%(500) 77%(500) 100%(400)
VolumeControl 100%(13) 100%(350) 90%(500) 100%(180)
DuetotherandomnatureofMonkey,notalleventsexecuted
on the device will hit an interactive view in the application.
Despite sending 500 events to the device, Monkey on average
has only an 8% hit rate. Monkey also takes approximately
5 minutes to execute. Given this time scale and the amount

## Page 8

of interactions required to achieve a high coverage, larger [6] M. Linares-Va´squez, K. Moran, and D. Poshyvanyk, “Continuous,
applications cannot afford the wasted time and resources. evolutionary and large-scale: A new perspective for automated mobile
apptesting,”inICSME,2017,pp.399–410.
In comparison, Monkey++ achieves 100% interface cover-
[7] S. Yang, D. Yan, H. Wu, Y. Wang, and A. Rountev, “Static control-
agewithamaximumof19interactions.Knowingtheunderly- flowanalysisofuser-drivencallbacksinAndroidapplications,”inICSE,
ing structure of the interface, removes redundant interactions vol.1. IEEE,2015,pp.89–99.
[8] Android Developers, “Monkeyrunner,” https://developer.android.com/
and therefore saves time and resources. While gaining this
studio/test/monkeyrunner/index.html,2015.
knowledge requires pre-processing, it is only required once [9] D. T. Milano, “Androidviewclient,” https://github.com/dtmilano/
and the overhead is far less with our graph generation taking AndroidViewClient,2016.
[10] Android Developers, “UI Automator,” https://developer.android.com/
approximately 10 seconds on the largest AUT.
training/testing/ui-automator,2014.
[11] AndroidDevelopers,“Espresso,”https://developer.android.com/training/
VII. CONCLUSION
testing/espresso,2016.
Android’s event driven paradigm and its reliance on call- [12] N.Verma,MobileTestAutomationWithAppium. PacktPublishingLtd,
2017.
back methods has presented many challenges to traditional [13] H. Zadgaonkar, Robotium automated testing for Android. Packt
testing techniques. The most popular framework for testing is PublishingBirmingham,2013.
ExerciserMonkey,anautomatedrandominputgenerationtool [14] M.Fazzini,E.N.D.A.Freitas,S.R.Choudhary,andA.Orso,“Barista:
Atechniqueforrecording,encoding,andrunningplatformindependent
designed to test an Android application through its interface. Androidtests,”inICST,2017,pp.149–160.
We argue that Monkey is a reliable, but limited, testing tool, [15] L. Gomez, I. Neamtiu, T. Azim, and T. Millstein, “Reran: Timing-and
that can be made more efficient and effective by replacing its
touch-sensitiverecordandreplayforAndroid,”inICSE,2013,pp.72–
81.
random nature with knowledge of the applications structure. [16] M.Halpern,Y.Zhu,R.Peri,andV.J.Reddi,“Mosaic:cross-platform
In this paper, we presented a novel control flow structure user-interaction record and replay for the fragmented android ecosys-
tem,”inISPASS,2015,pp.215–224.
able to represent the code of Android applications, including
[17] AndroidDevelopers,“Espressotestrecorder,”https://developer.android.
allinteractiveelements.Weshowthatthe(controlflow)graph com/studio/test/espresso-test-recorder.html,2016.
generated by our solution can direct/support the execution of [18] Android Developers, “UI/Application Exerciser Monkey,” https://
a tool like Monkey (We call our extension Monkey++) and developer.android.com/studio/test/monkey.html,2012.
[19] A.Machiry,R.Tahiliani,andM.Naik,“Dynodroid:Aninputgeneration
addresstwomainchallengesintestingAndroidappsusingthe systemforAndroidapps,”inFSE,2013,pp.224–234.
framework: removing duplicate/redundant interactions (i.e., [20] T. Azim and I. Neamtiu, “Targeted and depth-first exploration for
systematic testing of Android apps,” in Proceedings of the 2013 ACM
efficiency, using less resources) by tracking areas already
SIGPLAN international conference on Object oriented programming
exploredbythetestsuite;andincreasingtestcoverage(i.e.,its systemslanguages&applications,2013,pp.641–660.
effectiveness)bytargetingunexploredareasoftheapplication. [21] K.Moran,M.Linares-Va´squez,C.Bernal-Ca´rdenas,C.Vendome,and
D.Poshyvanyk,“Crashscope:Apracticaltoolforautomatedtestingof
Our results show that although Monkey can achieve a high
androidapplications,”inICSE,2017,pp.15–18.
coverage, it requires a large number of wasted interactions. [22] D. Amalfitano, A. R. Fasolino, P. Tramontana, S. De Carmine, and
Monkey achieves a coverage value of at least 85%. However, A. M. Memon, “Using GUI ripping for automated testing of Android
applications,”inASE,2012,pp.258–261.
to achieve these results, 500 interactions were executed and
[23] W.Choi,G.Necula,andK.Sen,“GuidedGUItestingofAndroidapps
on average only 8% actually interacted with the application. withminimalrestartandapproximatelearning,”SIGPLANNot.,vol.48,
IncomparisonthetestsuitegeneratedbyMonkey++achieved no.10,pp.623–640,2013.
[24] T.Su,G.Meng,Y.Chen,K.Wu,W.Yang,Y.Yao,G.Pu,Y.Liu,and
100%interactioncoveragewithamaximumof19interactions,
Z.Su,“Guided,stochasticmodel-basedGUItestingofAndroidapps,”
showing that Monkey can be more effective with knowledge inFSE,2017,pp.245–256.
of the applications underlying structure. [25] D. Amalfitano, A. R. Fasolino, P. Tramontana, B. D. Ta, and A. M.
Memon, “MobiGUITAR: Automated model-based testing of mobile
In the future we will explore other search techniques suited
apps,”IEEEsoftware,vol.32,no.5,pp.53–59,2014.
to large scale Android applications while also leveraging [26] D. Amalfitano, N. Amatucci, A. M. Memon, P. Tramontana, and
knowledge of the applications internal structure (i.e., our con- A.R.Fasolino,“Ageneralframeworkforcomparingautomatictesting
techniques of android mobile apps,” Journal of Systems and Software,
trol flow structure) to increase bug detection and efficiency.
vol.125,pp.322–343,2017.
[27] W.Wang,D.Li,W.Yang,Y.Cao,Z.Zhang,Y.Deng,andT.Xie,“An
REFERENCES
empiricalstudyofAndroidtestgenerationtoolsinindustrialcases,”in
[1] “Statcounterglobalstats:Mobileoperatingsystemmarketshareworld-
ASE,2018,pp.738–748.
wide,” https://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/mobile/worldwide/, [28] P.Lam,E.Bodden,O.Lhota´k,andL.Hendren,“TheSootframework
accessed:19-01-2021.
forJavaprogramanalysis:aretrospective,”inCetusUsersandCompiler
[2] J. Clement, “Statista: Mobile app monetization - statistics and facts,”
InfastructureWorkshop(CETUS2011),vol.15,2011,p.35.
https://www.statista.com/topics/983/mobile-app-monetization/, 2020, [29] R. Vallee-Rai and L. J. Hendren, “Jimple: Simplifying Java bytecode
accessed:19-01-2021. foranalysesandtransformations,”1998.
[3] A.Zuniga,H.Flores,E.Lagerspetz,P.Nurmi,S.Tarkoma,P.Hui,and [30] L.Li,T.F.Bissyande´,M.Papadakis,S.Rasthofer,A.Bartel,D.Octeau,
J.Manner,“Tortoiseorhare?quantifyingtheeffectsofperformanceon J.Klein,andL.Traon,“StaticanalysisofAndroidapps:Asystematic
mobile app retention,” in The World Wide Web Conference, 2019, pp. literaturereview,”IST,vol.88,pp.67–95,2017.
2517–2528. [31] S. Arzt, S. Rasthofer, C. Fritz, E. Bodden, A. Bartel, J. Klein,
[4] P. Kong, L. Li, J. Gao, K. Liu, T. F. Bissyande´, and J. Klein, “Auto- Y.LeTraon,D.Octeau,andP.McDaniel,“FlowDroid:Precisecontext,
mated testing of android apps: A systematic literature review,” IEEE flow,field,object-sensitiveandlifecycle-awaretaintanalysisforAndroid
TransactionsonReliability,vol.68,no.1,pp.45–66,2018. apps,”AcmSigplanNotices,vol.49,no.6,pp.259–269,2014.
[5] M. E. Joorabchi, A. Mesbah, and P. Kruchten, “Real challenges in [32] “Fossdroid:FreeandopensourceAndroidapps,”https://fossdroid.com,
mobile app development,” in ACM/IEEE International Symposium on accessed:19-01-2021.
EmpiricalSoftwareEngineeringandMeasurement,2013,pp.15–24.

